




[Illustration: _WILLIAM ROBERT PRINCE_]




               STATE OF NEW YORK—DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
                 Eighteenth Annual Report—Vol. 3—Part II

       *       *       *       *       *




                                   THE

                            PLUMS OF NEW YORK

                                    BY

                              U. P. HEDRICK

                               ASSISTED BY

                              R. WELLINGTON
                               O. M. TAYLOR
                              W. H. ALDERMAN
                               M. J. DORSEY

 Report of the New York Agricultural Experiment Station for the Year 1910
                                    II

                                  ALBANY
                    J. B. LYON COMPANY, STATE PRINTERS
                                   1911




               NEW YORK AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION,

                                 GENEVA, N. Y., _December 31, 1910_.


    _To the Honorable Board of Control of the New York Agricultural
    Experiment Station_:

    GENTLEMEN:—I have the honor to transmit herewith Part II of
    the report of this institution for the year 1910, to be known
    as _The Plums of New York_. This constitutes the third in the
    series of fruit publications that is being prepared under your
    authority.

    The data embodied in the volume are the result of
    long-continued studies and observations at this institution
    as well as throughout the State, to which has been added a
    large amount of information that commercial plum-growers have
    very kindly furnished. The attempt has been made to produce a
    monograph including all the cultivated plums, and it is hoped
    that the result will be recognized as a worthy advance in the
    literature of this class of fruits.

                                                       W. H. JORDAN,
                                                       _Director._




PREFACE


_The Plums of New York_ is the third monograph of the fruits of this
region published by the New York Agricultural Experiment Station. The
aims of these books have been stated in full in _The Grapes of New York_,
but it is considered best to re-state some of these briefly and to
indicate some features in which the book on plums differs from the one on
grapes.

Broadly speaking, the aim has been to make _The Plums of New York_ a
record of our present knowledge of cultivated plums. The book has been
written for New York but its contents are so general in character that
the work applies to the whole country and more or less to the world. The
first chapter is a historical account and a botanical classification of
plums; the second, a discussion of the present status of plum-growing
in America; while the third and fourth are devoted to varieties of
plums. The first and last two of these chapters contain the synonymy and
bibliography of the species and varieties of plums. In the foot-notes
running through the book biographical sketches are given of the persons
who have contributed most to plum culture in America; here may be found
also matters pertaining to plums not properly included in the text but
necessary for its best understanding. Important varieties, so considered
from various standpoints, with the bark and the flowers of several
species, are illustrated in colors.

_The Plums of New York_ is a horticultural and not a botanical work.
But in a study of the fruit from a horticultural standpoint one must of
necessity consider botanical relationships. It is hoped that in this
enforced systematic study of plums, however, something has been added
to the botanical knowledge of this fruit. In classifying the varieties
and species, to show their characters and relationships, the author
has chosen to dispose of the groups in accordance with his own views
though the arrangement adopted is, for most part, scarcely more than a
modification of existing classifications.

Attention must be called to the indefiniteness of species and varieties
of plums due chiefly to the extreme responsiveness of the plants to
environment. On each side of the specific or varietal types there are
wide ranges of variation. Since the relationships between types are often
very close it is impossible to avoid some confusion in characters,
for outliers of the types cannot but overlap. It might be well said
that these outliers are connecting links and that groups so connected
should be combined, but this would make specific division of the genus
and varietal division of the species almost impossible. The groups
must, therefore, be separated along more or less arbitrary lines. But
such arbitrary separation does not prevent natural groups, if nature be
broadly interpreted.

The chief value of the work in hand lies in its discussion of varieties.
In the descriptions the aim has been to give as tersely as possible an
idea of all of the characters of the plums described. With very few
exceptions the technical descriptions of varieties are original and were
made by those who have taken active part in the preparation of this book.
Nearly all of the varieties having full descriptions grow on the Station
grounds but whenever possible specimens of each variety from different
localities have been compared with those growing here.

A special effort has been made to give as exactly as possible the regions
in which the species and varieties of plums grow. Such an effort is made
under the belief that this knowledge is of great value in the study
of the factors which govern the distribution of wild and domesticated
plants. If the boundaries of the regions in which a few scores of
varieties of the several fruits grow can be accurately established
valuable generalizations can be drawn regarding life zones and plant
distribution.

The reader should know what considerations have governed the selection
of varieties for color-plates and full descriptions. These are: (1)
The known value of the variety for the commercial or amateur grower.
(2) The probable value of new varieties. (3) To furnish data for the
plum-breeder; to show combinations of species or varieties, or new
characters, or the range in variation. (4) Some sorts have been described
because of historical value—to better show what the trend of plum
evolution has been. (5) To indicate the relationships of species and
varieties. The varieties are divided into three groups according to their
importance as gauged from the standpoints given above.

In botanical nomenclature the code adopted by the American botanists
in Philadelphia in 1904 and modified by the International Botanical
Congress at Vienna in 1905, has been used. For horticultural names,
lacking a better code, the revised rules of the American Pomological
Society have been followed, though in a few cases we have not seen fit
to follow the rules of this society, as the changes required by their
strict observance would have brought much confusion. Only those who have
to work with a great number of varieties of fruit can know the chaotic
conditions of our pomological nomenclature. One of the aims of the work
in hand is to set straight in some degree the great confusion in plum
names.

All synonyms of varieties have been given so far as they could be
determined but it did not seem worth while to give all of the references
to be found even in standard plum literature. Fewer of these are listed
for the leading varieties than in the books on apples or grapes which
have preceded, only such being given as have been found of use by the
writers or thought of possible use to future plum students. On the other
hand some references have been given for all varieties, a task not
attempted in _The Grapes of New York_.

As in the preceding books the color-plates have been given much
attention. Work and expense have not been spared to make the plates the
best possible with the present knowledge of color-printing. Yet the
illustrations are not exact reproductions. The colors are, at best, only
approximations; for it is impossible by mechanical processes to reproduce
Nature’s delicate tints and shades. The camera does not take colors as
the human eye sees them; and the maker of the copper plate can not quite
reproduce all that the camera has taken. The colors then depend on the
judgment of the printer, who by selecting and mingling colored inks,
reproduces as nearly as his materials permit, the shades in his eye and
mind; but no two persons see exactly the same colors in any object; so
his conception may differ much from that of the horticulturist or artist
who saw the original plum, as do theirs from each other. Still it is
hoped that the color-plates will be of great service in illustrating
the text. All of the plums from which the plates were made came from
the Station grounds; the illustrations, with a few exceptions which are
noted, are of life size, as grown under the conditions existing at this
place, and as far as possible all are from specimens of average size and
color.

Acknowledgments are due in particular to the plum-growers of New York who
have furnished much information for _The Plums of New York_; to numerous
institutions in all parts of the United States who have loaned botanical
specimens; to Professor Charles Sprague Sargent for advice, information
and the use of the Arnold Arboretum library and herbarium; to W. F.
Wight of the United States Department of Agriculture, who has given most
valuable assistance in describing the species of plums and in giving
their range; to the Station Editor, F. H. Hall, who has had charge of
the proof-reading; to Zeese-Wilkinson and Company, New York City, for
their care and skill in making the color-plates; and to the J. B. Lyon
Company, Albany, New York, for their careful work in the mechanical
construction of the book.

                                       U. P. HEDRICK,
               _Horticulturist, New York Agricultural Experiment Station._




TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                   PAGE

    PREFACE                                           v

    INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS                           ix

    CHAPTER   I.—EDIBLE PLUMS                         1

    CHAPTER  II.—PLUM CULTURE                       100

    CHAPTER III.—LEADING VARIETIES OF PLUMS         136

    CHAPTER  IV.—MINOR VARIETIES OF PLUMS           391

    BIBLIOGRAPHY, REFERENCES AND ABBREVIATIONS      573

    INDEX                                           581




INDEX TO ILLUSTRATIONS


    PORTRAIT OF WILLIAM ROBERT PRINCE     _Frontispiece_

                                            FACING PAGE

    ABUNDANCE                                       136
    AGEN                                            138
    AMERICA                                         142
    AMES                                            144
    APPLE                                           146
    ARCH DUKE                                       148
    ARCTIC                                          150
    ARKANSAS                                        152
    AUTUMN COMPOTE                                  154
    BAVAY                                           156
    BELLE                                           158
    BLACK BULLACE                                   162
    BRADSHAW                                        166
    BURBANK                                         170
    CHABOT                                          172
    CHENEY                                          176
    CLIMAX                                          178
    DE CARADEUC                                     188
    DE SOTO                                         190
    DIAMOND                                         192
    DOWNING                                         194
    DRAP D’OR                                       194
    DUANE                                           196
    ENGLEBERT                                       204
    FIELD                                           208
    FOREST GARDEN                                   210
    FOREST ROSE                                     210
    FREESTONE                                       212
    FRENCH                                          214
    GEORGESON                                       218
    GERMAN PRUNE                                    220
    GIANT                                           222
    GOLDEN                                          224
    GOLDEN BEAUTY                                   226
    GOLDEN DROP                                     228
    GOLIATH                                         232
    GRAND DUKE                                      234
    GUEII                                           236
    HALE                                            238
    HAMMER                                          238
    HAND                                            240
    HAWKEYE                                         242
    HUDSON                                          244
    HUNGARIAN                                       246
    ICKWORTH                                        248
    IMPERIAL GAGE                                   252
    ITALIAN PRUNE                                   254
    JEFFERSON                                       256
    JUICY                                           258
    LATE ORLEANS                                    266
    LOMBARD                                         268
    MAQUOKETA                                       272
    MARIANNA                                        274
    MCLAUGHLIN                                      276
    MIDDLEBURG                                      278
    MONARCH                                         286
    NEWMAN                                          292
    NEW ULM                                         294
    OCTOBER                                         298
    OREN                                            300
    OULLINS                                         304
    PACIFIC                                         306
    PEARL                                           310
    PETERS                                          312
    POND                                            314
    POTTAWATTAMIE                                   316
    _PRUNUS AMERICANA_, BLOSSOMS OF                  56
    _PRUNUS AMERICANA_, BARK OF                       6
    _PRUNUS CERASIFERA_, BLOSSOMS OF                 46
    _PRUNUS CERASIFERA_, BARK OF                      6
    _PRUNUS DOMESTICA_, BLOSSOMS OF                  12
    _PRUNUS DOMESTICA_, BARK OF                       6
    _PRUNUS HORTULANA_, BLOSSOMS OF                  64
    _PRUNUS HORTULANA_, BARK OF                       6
    _PRUNUS HORTULANA MINERI_, BLOSSOMS OF           68
    _PRUNUS HORTULANA MINERI_, BARK OF                6
    _PRUNUS INSITITIA_, BLOSSOMS OF                  34
    _PRUNUS INSITITIA_, BARK OF                       6
    _PRUNUS MUNSONIANA_, BLOSSOMS OF                 88
    _PRUNUS MUNSONIANA_, BARK OF                      6
    _PRUNUS NIGRA_, BLOSSOMS OF                      70
    _PRUNUS NIGRA_, BARK OF                           6
    _PRUNUS TRIFLORA_, BLOSSOMS OF                   50
    _PRUNUS TRIFLORA_, BARK OF                        6
    QUACKENBOSS                                     320
    ROBINSON                                        330
    SATSUMA                                         338
    SHIPPER                                         342
    SHIRO                                           344
    SHROPSHIRE                                      344
    SMITH ORLEANS                                   348
    SPAULDING                                       350
    SUGAR                                           354
    SURPRISE                                        356
    TENNANT                                         358
    TRAGEDY                                         360
    VICTORIA                                        364
    VORONESH                                        366
    WASHINGTON                                      368
    WAYLAND                                         370
    WHITE BULLACE                                   374
    WICKSON                                         376
    WILD GOOSE                                      378
    WOLF                                            380
    WOOD                                            382
    WORLD BEATER                                    384
    YELLOW EGG                                      386




THE PLUMS OF NEW YORK




CHAPTER I

EDIBLE PLUMS


THE GENUS PRUNUS

The great genus Prunus includes plums, cherries, almonds, apricots,
peaches, and the evergreen cherries or cherry laurels. Its widely
distributed species number a hundred or more for the world, nearly all of
which belong north of the equator. The species of the genus are widely
distributed in both the eastern and western hemispheres, the flora of
eastern America and of western Asia being especially rich in species and
individuals. For most part the species of Prunus belong to the Temperate
Zone, but several of the evergreen cherries, usually grouped in a section
under Laurocerasus, are found in the tropics and sub-tropics.

The species cultivated for their edible fruits are found only in the
Temperate Zone of the Northern Hemisphere. Of these the peach and the
almond are believed to have come from eastern and southeastern Asia;
the apricot is thought to be a native of northern China; the wild
forms of the cultivated cherries are Eurasian plants, very generally
distributed in the regions to the northward where the two continents
meet. The habitats of the cultivated plums are given in detail in the
text that follows, as Asia, Europe and America. Presumably the genus
had its origin in some of the above regions; but where the center is
from which the species radiated can never be known. Indeed, with present
knowledge it cannot be said in what region Prunus has most species, is
most productive of individuals, or shows highest development and greatest
variability,—facts which might give some evidence as to the origin of
the genus. It is probable that the greatest number of combinations of
the above evidences can be shown for Asia and more especially for the
Eurasian region, where Europe and Asia meet; yet North America has two
score or more indigenous species about half of which are arborescent.

The history of the genus Prunus is one of continual changes. Of the
botanists who have done most toward classifying plants, Ray, Tournefort,
Dillenius and Boerhaave, pre-Linnaean botanists, placed only the plum
in Prunus. Linnaeus adopted the name used by his predecessors for the
plum alone, for a genus in which he also placed plums and cherries.
Adanson and Jussieu returned to the pre-Linnaean classification but
Gaertner followed the grouping of Linnaeus. Necker, DeCandolle, Roemer
and Decaisne held that the plum alone belongs in Prunus. Bentham &
Hooker, Gray and his co-workers in the several revisions of his botany,
and Engler & Prantl, great authorities of the Nineteenth Century, extend
the genus to include all of the stone-fruits. On the other hand, Britton
and Brown, in their recent flora of northern United States and of Canada
restrict the group to plums and cherries. Horticulturists have been less
divided in their opinions than the botanists and have very generally
placed all of the stone-fruits in one genus. The diversity of views as
to what plants belong in Prunus, indicated above, suggests that the
differences separating the several stone-fruits may not be many nor
very distinct. This is true, and makes necessary a discussion of the
characters which distinguish these fruits.

The flowers of true plums are borne on stems in fascicled umbels and
appear either before the leaves or with or after them. Flowers of the
cultivated cherries are similarly borne, though the fascicles are
corymbose rather than umbelliferous. But apricot, peach and almond
flowers are stemless or nearly so and solitary or borne in pairs
appearing before the leaves.

The fruits of plums and cherries are globular or oblong, fleshy, very
juicy, with smooth or slightly hairy skins. Peaches, apricots and almonds
are more sulcate or grooved than plums and cherries and the first two
have juicy flesh, but that of the almond is dry and hard or skin-like,
splitting at maturity thereby liberating the stone; these last three
fruits are distinguished from plums and cherries by having very pubescent
or velvety skins though rarely, as in the nectarine, a botanical variety
of the peach, and in a few cultivated apricots, the skins are smooth.

The stone of the plum is usually compressed, longer than broad, smooth
or roughened, thickish and with an acute margin along the ventral suture
and thinnish or grooved on the dorsal suture. The stone of the cherry
is usually globular, always much thickened, smooth or a very little
roughened, ridged and grooved on the ventral suture, with a thin,
scarcely raised sharp margin on the dorsal suture. The stone of the
apricot is similar to that of the plum though thicker walled, with a more
conspicuous winged margin, and is sometimes pitted. The stone of the
peach is compressed, usually with very thick walls, much roughened and
deeply pitted. In the almond the stone resembles in general characters
the peach-stone, but all almond shells are more or less porous and often
fibrous on the inner surfaces. The stone is the part for which the almond
is cultivated and is most variable, the chief differences being that some
have thick hard shells and others thin soft shells.

The leaves of plums are convolute, or rolled up, in the bud. Cherry,
peach and almond leaves are conduplicate, that is are folded lengthwise
along the midrib in bud while the leaves of the apricot, like those of
the plum, are convolute. The manner in which the leaves are packed in the
bud is a fine mark of distinction in stone-fruits. In size and shape of
leaves, as well as in the finer marks of these organs, the botanist and
pomologist find much to aid in distinguishing species and varieties but
little that holds in separating the sub-genera. The last statement holds
true with the floral organs also.

The near affinity of the stone-fruits is further shown by the fact that
plums and apricots, plums and cherries, and the several species of each
of the distinct fruits inter-hybridize without much difficulty. It is
a fact well-known that hybrids often surpass their parents in vigor of
plant and in productiveness and this has proved true with most of the
hybrids in Prunus of which we have accounts, thereby giving promise of
improved forms of these plants through hybridizing. The great variation
in wild and cultivated native plums is possibly due to more or less
remote hybridity.

Prunus is a most variable genus. This is indicated by the several
sub-genera, the large number of species and the various arrangements
of these groups by different authors. At their extremes sub-genera and
species are very distinct, but outside of the normal types, and sometimes
in several directions, there are often outstanding forms which establish
well-graded connections with neighboring groups. For example, among the
American plums there are but few species between which and some other
there are not intermediate forms that make the two species difficult
to distinguish under some conditions. There is also a wide range of
variation within the species. The modifications within the species are
oftentimes such as to change greatly the aspect of the plant; the trees
may be dwarf or luxuriant, smooth or pubescent; may differ in branching
habit, in leaf-form, in size and color of the flowers, in the time of
opening of leaf and flower-buds, in color, shape, size, flesh, flavor and
time of ripening of fruit, in the stone and in all such characters as
climate and soil environment would be liable to modify.

This inherent variability is one of the strong assets of the genus as
a cultivated group of plants, for it allows not only a great number of
kinds of fruits and of species but a great number of varieties. Besides,
it gives to the genus great adaptiveness to cultural environment, in
accordance with climate, location, soil and the handling of the trees.
The cultivator is able to modify, too, the characters of members of the
genus to a high degree in the production of new forms, but few, if any,
groups of plants having produced as many cultivated varieties as Prunus.

The genus Prunus is preeminent in horticulture, furnishing all of the
so-called stone-fruits, fruits which for variety, delicious flavor and
beauty of appearance, probably surpass those of any other genus, and
which, fresh or dried, are most valuable human foods. The seeds of one of
the fruits belonging to Prunus, the almond, are commercially important,
both for direct consumption and for the oil which is pressed from
them; in India a similar oil is obtained from the seeds of peaches and
apricots, while in Europe an oil from the seeds of the Mahaleb cherry
is used in making perfumes. Various cordials are made from the fruits
of the several species, as kirschwasser and maraschino from cherries,
zwetschenwasser and raki from plums, and peach brandy from the peach;
while fruits and seeds of the several species are soaked in spirits for
food, drink and medicinal purposes. The bitter astringent bark and leaves
are more or less used in medicine as is also the gum secreted from the
trunks of nearly all the species and which, known as cerisin, is used in
various trades. The wood of all of the arborescent species is more or
less valuable for lumber, for cabinet-making and other domestic purposes.

Prunus is prolific also in ornamental plants, having in common to
recommend them, rapidity of growth, ease of culture, comparative freedom
from pests, and great adaptability to soils and climates. The plants of
this genus are valued as ornamentals both for their flowers and for their
foliage. Many cultivated forms of several of the species have single or
double flowers, or variegated, colored or otherwise abnormal leaves,
while the genus is enlivened by the evergreen foliage of the cherry
laurels. Nearly all of the plants of Prunus are spring-flowering but most
of them are attractive later on in the foliage and many of them are very
ornamental in fruit.


PLUMS.

Of all the stone-fruits plums furnish the greatest diversity of kinds.
Varieties to the number of two thousand, from fifteen species, are now
or have been under cultivation. These varieties give a greater range of
flavor, aroma, texture, color, form and size, the qualities which gratify
the senses and make fruits desirable, than any other of our orchard
fruits. The trees, too, are diverse in structure, some of the plums being
shrub-like plants with slender branches, while others are true trees with
stout trunks and sturdy branches; some species have thin, delicate leaves
and others coarse, heavy foliage. In geographical distribution both the
wild and the cultivated plum encircle the globe in the North Temperate
Zone, and the cultivated varieties are common inhabitants of the southern
temperate region, the various plums being adapted to great differences in
temperature, moisture and soil in the two zones.

The great variety of plums and the variability of the kinds, seemingly
plastic in all characters, the general distribution of the fruit
throughout the zone in which is carried on the greatest part of the
world’s agriculture, and the adaptation of the several species and the
many varieties, to topographical, soil and climatic changes, make this
fruit not only one of much present importance but also one of great
capacity for further development. Of the plums of the Old World the
Domesticas, Insititias and probably the Trifloras have been cultivated
for two thousand years or more, while the work of domesticating the wild
species of America was only begun in the middle of the last century.
There are about fifteen hundred varieties of the Old World plums listed
in this work, and since the New World plums are quite as variable, as
great a variety or greater, since there are more species, may be expected
in America.

An attempt is made in _The Plums of New York_ to review the plum flora
of this continent, but the species considered fall far short of being
all of the promising indigenous plums; not only are there more to be
described, but it is probable that species here described will in some
cases be sub-divided. The development of the pomological plum-wealth of
North America is but begun. Not nearly as much has been done to develop
the possibilities of the European plums in America as in the case of the
other tree-fruits. Probably a greater percentage of the varieties of Old
World plums commonly cultivated came from across the sea, than of the
varieties of any other of the orchard-fruits which have been introduced.
Much remains to be done in securing greater adaptability of foreign
plums to American conditions. Native and foreign plums are also being
hybridized with very great advantage to pomology.

_The Plums of New York_ is written largely with the aim of furthering
the development of plums in America, the possibilities of which are
indicated in the preceding paragraph. With this end in view the first
task is to name and discuss briefly the characters of plums whereby
species and varieties are distinguished, with a statement, so far
as present knowledge permits, of the variability of the different
characters. It is absolutely essential that the plum-grower have
knowledge, especially if he aspires to improve the fruit by breeding, of
the characters of the plants with which he is to work. These are in the
main as follows:

All species and some horticultural varieties have more or less
characteristic trees. Making due allowance for environment—food, moisture
and light—many plum groups can be readily distinguished by the general
aspect of the plant. Of the gross characters of trees, size is usually
most characteristic. A species, for example, is either shrubby or
tree-like. Yet under varying environment, size of plant and of the parts
of the plant, are probably the first to change. Habit of growth is nearly
as important as size and varies but little under changing conditions. A
species or variety may be upright, spreading, drooping or round-topped
in growth; head open or dense; the tree rapid or slow-growing. Hardiness
is a very important diagnostic character, plums being either hardy,
half-hardy or tender. Both species and varieties respond in high degree
to the test of hardiness, the range for varieties, of course, falling
within that of the species. Productiveness, regularity of bearing,
susceptibility to diseases and insects, and longevity of tree are all
characters having value for species and varieties and with the exception
of the first named, are little subject to variation.

The thickness, smoothness, color and manner of exfoliation of the
outer bark and the color of the inner bark have considerable value in
determining species but are little used in determining horticultural
groups. It is well recognized that all plums have lighter colored bark
in the South than in the North. The branches are very characteristic in
several species. The length, thickness and rigidity of the branch and
the length of its internodes should be considered, while the direction
of the branch, whether straight or zigzag, are very valuable determining
characters and relatively stable ones, seeming to change for most part
only through long ranges of climatic conditions. So, too, the arming
of a branch with spines or spurs and the structure of such organs are
important. The color, smoothness, amount of pubescence, direction,
length, thickness and the appearance of the lenticels, the presence of
excrescences on the branchlets of the first and second year’s growth and
the branching angle, are all worthy of consideration though quite too
much has been made of these characters, especially of pubescence, in
determining species, for they are all extremely variable.

[Illustration:

    1. _P. HORTULANA MINERI_
    2. _P. AMERICANA_
    3. _P. CERASIFERA_
    4. _P. DOMESTICA_
    5. _P. INSITITIA_
    6. _P. HORTULANA_
    7. _P. MUNSONIANA_
    8. _P. NIGRA_
    9. _P. TRIFLORA_]

The size, shape and color of leaf-buds and of their outer and inner
scales and the margins of the scales differ in different species.
Possibly the most evident, and therefore readiest means of identifying
species, at least, is by the leaves. It is true that leaves are
very variable but always within limits, and either individually
or collectively in giving the general aspect to a tree they are
characteristic. Modifications of leaves most often occur in very young
plants, those growing in bright sunshine or deep shade and on sprouts
or suckers, but none of these are usually sufficient to mislead as to
species. Leaf-size and leaf-form are the first characters to be noted in
determining a plum but these are closely followed in value by leaf-color,
leaf-surface, leaf-thickness and leaf-margin. Leaf-size is variable,
depending much upon the conditions noted above but leaf-form varies but
little in the several species. So, too, the color of leaves is very
constant throughout a species, for both surfaces, though impossible
to describe accurately in words and very difficult to reproduce in
color-printing. There is a marked difference in autumnal tints not
only of species but of varieties but these are not very constant in
any one location and must vary greatly under different environments.
The thickness of the leaves of the several species is a distinctive
character. Species of plums have very different leaf-surfaces as regards
reticulation, rugoseness, pubescence and coriaceousness, all of these
characters being quite constant, though it is to be noted that roughness
of leaves and pubescence are increased by exposure to the sun and by the
influence of some soils. There is, indeed, considerable variation in
the pubescence of the leaves of all species of plums in different parts
of the country and probably too much has been made of pubescence as a
determining character.

The margins of leaves are very characteristic of species and scarcely
vary under normal conditions if the teeth at the middle of the sides be
taken rather than those toward the base or apex, these very often being
crowded, reduced or wanting. The presence of glands, their position,
size, shape and color, help to characterize several species and seem
to be fairly constant guides. Some species and a great number of
varieties have the distinguishing marks of gland-like prickles tipping
the serrations in the leaf-margins. Length, thickness, rigidity and
pubescence of petiole have some taxonomic value. Stipules usually offer
no distinguishing marks other than those mentioned under leaves.

The blossoms of plums are very characteristic, giving in flowering
time a distinctive aspect to all species and distinguishing some
horticultural varieties. The flowers of all the species are borne in
clusters, differing in number of individuals, according to the species;
so, too, the flowers in the different species vary in size, color, in
length of their peduncles, and in pubescence, especially of the calyx.
Flower-characters are constant, taking them as a whole, yet there are
some variations that must be noted. One of the most marked of these
is in the time of appearance of the flowers; in the South they appear
before the leaves but in the North with the leaves. On the grounds of
this Station there are notable exceptions to the latter statement, with
varieties of species showing considerable variation in this regard. There
are some remarkable variations within species as regards size and color
of the corolla and glands and pubescence of the calyx, depending upon
the environment of the plant; but on the whole these characters are very
constant. The fragrance of the flowers of plums varies from a delicate,
agreeable odor to one that is quite disagreeable in some species as in
Americana; the odor seems to be a constant character.

Of all structures of the plum the fruit is most variable, yet fruits are
sufficiently distinct and constant, especially within species, to make
their characters very valuable in classification. Species, whether wild
or cultivated, may be distinguished in greater or less degree by the
period of ripening of the fruits, though in this regard the cultivated
varieties of the several species vary greatly and in the wild state trees
of native plums in the same locality, even in the same clump, may vary in
ripening as much as from two to four weeks. Species are distinguished by
size, shape, color, flesh, flavor and pit among the grosser characters of
the structure and by amount of bloom, stem, cavity, apex, suture and skin
among the minor characters. The fruit is usually the first part of the
plant to respond to changed conditions.

Characters derived from seed structures are generally accounted of much
value by botanists in determining species. Such is the case with plums.
This Station has a collection of stones of over three hundred cultivated
varieties of plums and some specimens of nearly all the different
species. The stones illustrated in the color-plates in this book show
that this structure is quite variable in size, shape, in the ends,
surfaces, grooves and ridges, even within a species; nevertheless in
describing the several hundred forms of plums for _The Plums of New York_
the stone has been quite as satisfactory, if not the most satisfactory,
of any of the organs of this plant for distinguishing the various species
and varieties.

The reproductive organs of plums afford several characters and would
seem to offer means of distinguishing botanical and horticultural
groups, but they are so variable in both cultivated and wild plants as
to be very misleading. Not only do these organs differ very often in
structure but also in ability to perform their functions. Bailey[1] has
called attention to the remarkable self-sterility of some varieties
of the native species of plums, due to the impotency of the pollen
upon flowers of the same variety. C. W. H. Heideman[2] made some very
interesting observations on what he considers distinct forms of the
flowers of the Americana plums, describing for this species all of the
six possible variations of flowers enumerated by Darwin in his _Different
Forms of Flowers in Plants of the Same Species_. Heideman thinks that
other species of Prunus exhibit similar variations. Waugh[3] made the
pollination of plums a subject of careful and extended study and found
much variation in the pistils of plants of the same species, insufficient
pollen in some plants, pollen impotent on the stigma of the same flower,
and considerable difference in the time of maturity of pollen and stigma
in some plums, especially the Americana plums. These variations, most
important to the plum-grower, are of more or less use in identifying
plums.

After the discussion of the characters of plums we may pass to a detailed
description and discussion of the species of plums which now contribute
or may contribute cultivated forms to the pomology of the country either
for their fruits or as stocks upon which to grow other plums. The
following conspectus shows as well as may be the relations of the species
of plums to each other.


CONSPECTUS OF SPECIES OF PLUMS.

  A. Flowers in clusters of 1 or 2. (Three in _P. triflora_.)
     Old World plums.
    B. Leaves drooping.
      C. Shoots and pedicels pubescent.
        D. Flowers mostly in twos.
          E. Fruits large, more than 1 inch in
             diameter, variable in shape, often
             compressed; tree large; stamens
             about 30.                             =1. P. domestica.=
          E.E. Fruit small, less than 1 inch in
             diameter, uniformly oval or ovoid;
             stamens about 25; tree small,
             compact.                              =2. P. insititia.=
        D.D. Flowers mostly single.
          E. Leaves small, less than 2 inches
             in length; sometimes a tree; very
             thorny                                =3. P. spinosa.=
          E.E. Leaves large, more than 2½ inches
             in length; a shrub; thorns few        =4. P. curdica.=
      C.C. Shoots glabrous or soon becoming so,
         pedicels glabrous.
        D. Pedicels shorter than the calyx-cup;
           leaves glabrous or sparsely pubescent
           on the under side along the rib;
           flowers in pairs                        =5. P. cocomilia.=
        D.D. Pedicels more than twice as long
           as the calyx-cup.
          E. Flowers mostly single; leaves hairy
             along the midrib on the under side;
             petiole ⅕ as long as the leaf-blade;
             a tree                                =6. P. cerasifera.=
          E.E. Flowers in threes; leaves glabrous,
             petiole shining, leaf-margins finely
             and closely serrate, teeth
             glandular-pointed; stamens about 25   =7. P. monticola.=
          E.E.E. Flowers in threes; leaves
             glabrous, often shining,
             leaf-margins finely and closely
             serrate, teeth glandular-pointed;
             stamens about 25                      =8. P. triflora.=
    B.B. Leaves upright, peach-like, glabrous,
       veins very conspicuous, under side barbate
       at axils of veins; separated from all other
       plums by the leaf-characters and by the
       large, flattened, brick-red fruits          =9. P. simonii.=
  A.A. Flowers in clusters of 3 or more, rarely 2.
     American plums.
    B. Plants trees. (_P. angustifolia_ rarely
       a tree.)
      C. Leaves broad, mostly ovate or obovate.
        D. Leaves long-ovate or long-obovate.
          E. Flowers white.
            F. Leaf-serrations glandless, acute;
               petiole usually glandless; calyx-lobes
               entire, glabrous on the outer, pubescent
               on the inner surface; stamens about 30;
               stone turgid, large, pointed at the
               apex                                =10. P. americana.=
            F.F. Leaf-serrations glandular,
               wavy-crenate; petioles glandular;
               calyx-lobes glandular-serrate,
               pubescent on the inner surface;
               stamens about 20; stone turgid,
               small, prolonged at the ends        =11. P. hortulana.=
          E.E. Flowers fading to pink.
            F. Leaf-serrations coarse, rounded,
               glandular only when young; petioles
               biglandular; calyx-lobes
               glandular-serrate, not pubescent
               on the inner surface; stamens about
               30; fruit red; bloom light; stone
               flat                                =12. P. nigra.=
            F.F. Leaf-serrations fine, acute,
               glandular-pointed; petioles
               biglandular; calyx-lobes entire,
               pubescent on the outer, tomentose
               on the inner surface; fruits dark
               purple; bloom heavy; stone turgid,
               acute at the ends                   =13. P. alleghaniensis.=
        D.D. Leaves round-ovate, obtusely, sometimes
           doubly serrate; petioles glandless;
           calyx-lobes pubescent on both surfaces;
           fruit dark red or purplish; stone turgid,
           pointed at both ends                    =14. P. subcordata.=
      C.C. Leaves narrow, lanceolate-ovate.
        D. Leaves flat.
          E. Leaves glabrous; fruits globular,
             usually purple at maturity but sometimes
             red or orange-red; bloom thin; stone
             turgid, cherry-like                   =15. P. umbellata.=
          E.E. Leaves pubescent.
            F. Stone acute at both ends; fruit
               purple.                             =16. P. mitis.=
            F.F. Stone rounded at base; fruits
               variously colored                   =17. P. tarda.=
        D.D. Leaves more or less folded upward.
          E. Fruits small, ½ inch in diameter,
             cherry-like; leaves lanceolate,
             upper surface glabrous, lustrous,
             lower surface pubescent in axils
             of veins, marginal teeth glandless;
             petioles biglandular; stone small,
             ovoid, turgid, cherry-like; rarely
             a tree; tender in New York            =18. P. angustifolia.=
          E.E. Fruits large, an inch in diameter,
             plum-like; leaves lanceolate,
             peach-like, upper surface glabrous,
             lower surface pubescent along the
             midrib; petioles with from 1 to 6
             glands; stone compressed and pointed
             at both ends; usually a tree; hardy
             in New York                           =19. P. munsoniana=
    B.B. Plants shrubs.
      C. Fruits dark purple.
        D. Leaves ovate, acute, finely serrated;
           shoots becoming glabrous; stones
           pointed at both ends                    =20. P. maritima.=
        D.D. Leaves oval-orbicular, crenate-serrate;
           shoots usually pubescent; stone pointed
           only at the base                        =21. P. gravesii.=
      C.C. Fruits red or orange, sometimes yellow
           but never deep purple.
        D. Fruits large, 1 inch in diameter; leaves
           oblong-ovate, long-pointed, margin serrate
           with incurved sometimes glandular teeth,
           upper surface glabrous, lower surface
           pilose; petiole with 1 or 2 glands;
           stone oval, flattened                   =22. P. orthosepela.=
        D.D. Fruits small, ½ inch in diameter.
          E. Leaves small, ovate-lanceolate or
             oval, margins finely and evenly
             serrate, upper surface glabrous,
             lower surface soft pubescent;
             petioles short and stout; fruits
             variable in color, mostly red;
             stone turgid, pointed at both ends    =23. P. gracilis.=
          E.E. Leaves oblong-ovate, margins
             coarsely or doubly serrate, glabrous
             above and sparingly pubescent below;
             petiole glandular; fruits cherry-red  =24. P. rivularis.=


=1.= =PRUNUS DOMESTICA= Linnaeus

[Illustration: _PRUNUS DOMESTICA_]

    =1.= Linnaeus _Sp. Pl._ 475. 1753. =2.= Duhamel _Traite des
    Arb._ =2=:93, 95, 96. 1768. =3.= Seringe _DC. Prodr._ =2=:533.
    1825. =4.= Hooker _Brit. Fl._ 220. 1830. =5.= London _Arb. Fr.
    Brit._ 1844. =6.= De Candolle _Or. Cult. Pl._ 212. 1885. =7.=
    Schwarz _Forst. Bot._ 338. 1892. =8.= Koch, W. _Syn. Deut. und
    Schw. Fl._ =1=:727. 1892. =9.= Dippel _Handb. Laubh._ =3=:636.
    1893. =10.= Lucas _Handb. Obst._ 429. 1893. =11.= Waugh _Bot.
    Gaz._ =26=:417-27. 1898. =12.= Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1448.
    1901. =13.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 14. 1901. =14.= Schneider
    _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:630. 1906.

    _P. communis domestica._ =15.= Hudson _Fl. Anglic._ 212. 1778.
    =16.= Bentham _Handb. Brit. Fl._ =1=:236. 1865.

    _P. œconomica_ (in part) and _P. italica_ (in part). =17.=
    Borkhausen _Handb. Forstb._ =2=:1401, 1409. 1803. =18.= Koch,
    K. _Dend._ =1=:94, 96. 1869. =19.= Koehne _Deut. Dend._ 316.
    1893.

    Tree reaching a height of 30 or 40 feet, vigorous, open-headed,
    round-topped; trunk attaining a foot or more in diameter;
    bark thick, ashy-gray with a tinge of red, nearly smooth or
    roughened with transverse lines; branches upright or spreading,
    straight, stout and rigid, usually spineless; branchlets
    usually pubescent, light red the first year, becoming much
    darker or drab; lenticels small, raised, conspicuous, orange.

    Winter-buds large, conical, pointed, pubescent, free or
    appressed; leaves large, ovate or obovate, elliptical or
    oblong-elliptical, thick and firm in texture; upper surface
    dull green, rugose, glabrous or nearly so, the lower one
    paler with little or much tomentum, much reticulated; margins
    coarsely and irregularly crenate or serrate, often doubly
    so, teeth usually glandular; petioles a half-inch or more
    in length, stoutish, pubescent, tinged with red; glands
    usually two, often lacking, sometimes several, globose,
    greenish-yellow; stipules very small, less than a half-inch,
    lanceolate, narrow, serrate, early caducous.

    Flowers appearing after or sometimes with the leaves, showy,
    an inch or more across, greenish-white to creamy-white;
    borne on lateral spurs or sometimes from lateral buds on
    one-year-old wood, 1 or 2 from a bud in a more or less
    fascicled umbel; pedicels a half-inch or more in length, stout,
    green; calyx-tube campanulate, glabrous or pubescent, green;
    calyx-lobes broadly oblong, obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate, usually reflexed; petals white or creamy
    in the bud, oval to obovate, crenate, notched or entire, claw
    short and broad; stamens about 30, equal to or shorter than
    the petals; anthers yellow, sometimes tinged with red; pistils
    about as long as the stamens, glabrous or pubescent.

    Fruit of various shapes, mostly globular or sulcate, often
    necked, blue, red or yellow; stem a half-inch or more long,
    stout, pubescent; cavity shallow and narrow; apex variable,
    usually rounded; suture prominent or sometimes but a line or
    indistinct; skin variable; dots small, numerous, inconspicuous;
    flesh yellowish, firm, meaty, sweet or acid and of many
    flavors; stone free or clinging, large, oval, flattened, blunt,
    pointed or necked, slightly roughened or pitted; walls thick;
    one suture ridged—the other grooved.

Beside the comparatively well-known groups of Domestica varieties,
there are in Europe, with an occasional representative in America,
especially in herbaria, numerous other groups either a part of _Prunus
domestica_ or possibly, in a few cases at least, hybrids between it
and other species. European botanists place some of these in distinct
species or sub-species; but few, however, even of the recent writers on
the botany of the plum, agree at all closely as to the disposition of
these edible and ornamental plums which may be doubtfully referred to
_Prunus domestica_. With this disagreement between the best European
authorities where these plums have long been known, where some of them
have originated, and all may be found in orchards, botanic gardens and
herbaria, it does not seem wise at this distance to attempt a discussion
of such doubtful forms. It is certain, however, that Borkhausen’s _Prunus
italica_ and _Prunus œconomica_, as given in the synonymy, are but parts
of _Prunus domestica_, the first including the Reine Claude plums and
the latter the various prunes. So, too, a wild form named by Borkhausen,
_Prunus sylvestris_, is probably a part of _Prunus domestica_.

Bechstein[4] gave specific names to a number of plums which Schneider[5]
holds are all cultivated forms of _Prunus domestica_. These names are
not infrequently found in botanical and pomological literature, to the
great confusion of plum nomenclature. The following are Bechstein’s
species:—_Prunus exigua_, _Prunus rubella_, _Prunus lutea_, _Prunus
oxycarpa_, _Prunus subrotunda_ and _Prunus vinaria_.

The plum in which the world is chiefly interested is the Old World
_Prunus domestica_. The Domestica plums are not only the best known of
the cultivated plums, having been cultivated longest and being most
widely distributed, but they far surpass all other species, both in
the quality of the product and in the characters which make a tree a
desirable orchard plant. How much of this superiority is due to the
greater efforts of man in domesticating the species cannot be said, for
the natural history of this plum, whether wild or under cultivation, is
but poorly known. It is not even certain that these plums constitute a
distinct species, there being several hypotheses as to the origin of the
Domestica varieties. Three of these suppositions must be considered.

Many botanists hold that what American pomologists call the species
is an assemblage of several botanical divisions. The early botanists
distributed these plums in botanical varieties of one species. Thus
Linnaeus, in 1753, divided _Prunus domestica_ into fourteen sub-species,
and Seringe, in 1825, made eight divisions of the species. Both of
these men include in this species, among others, plums which we now
place in _Prunus cerasifera_, the Cherry plums, and _Prunus insititia_,
the Damsons and Bullaces. Nearly all subsequent botanists who have not
made two or more species of it have recognized from two to several
sub-divisions of _Prunus domestica_. It is possible that what are called
the Domestica plums should be distributed among several botanical
divisions. But it is difficult to find any differential character
sufficiently constant to distinguish more than one species for the
several hundred varieties of these plums now under cultivation. Nor are
there any cleavage lines sufficiently distinct to indicate that the
edible varieties of the one species should be sub-grouped.

In coming to these conclusions the writer has studied about three hundred
varieties of Domestica plums growing on the grounds of this Station and
about half as many more growing in other parts of the country, the whole
number representing all of the various species and sub-species which
other workers have made. The differences which have been most used to
classify the varieties of Domestica in several botanic divisions have to
do chiefly with the fruit, as size, shape, color and flavor, characters
so modified by cultivation and selection that they are artificial and
transitory and of little value in botanical classification. Moreover,
the botanical groups which have been founded on these characters are
much more indistinct than ordinarily in botany because of the merging at
many points of one group into another. This indistinctness is greatly
increasing year by year through the intercrossing of varieties. When
the characters of no value to man, and, therefore, little modified by
cultivation, are considered, it is scarcely possible logically to place
Domestica plums in more than one species or to further sub-divide the one
species.

The botanists who have divided the Domestica plums into either greater
or lesser botanical groups do not define their divisions with sufficient
accuracy to make them clearly recognizable. Neither do they give the
habitats of the wild progenitors with sufficient certainty to carry
conviction that the groups were brought under cultivation from separate
ancestors. Also, the several botanists who hold to the multiple species
theory for the Domestica plums do not agree as to the limits of the
different groups and give to them very different specific or variety
names, showing that they have widely different ideas as a basis for their
classification.

A second theory is that _Prunus domestica_ is derived from _Prunus
spinosa_ and that _Prunus insititia_ is an intermediate between the
two.[6] This hypothesis is based upon the supposition that when
Domestica plums run wild they revert to the Insititia or Spinosa form.
It is not difficult to test this theory. A study of the origin of the
several hundred Domestica and Insititia plums discussed in Chapters
III and IV of _The Plums of New York_ does not show for any one of
them a tendency to reversion or evolution to other species; nor do the
descriptions indicate that there are many, if any, transitional forms.
During the two thousand years they have been cultivated in Europe the Old
World plums have been constant to type. Domestica seedlings vary somewhat
but they do not depart greatly from a well marked type. Such very few
striking departures as there seem to be are more likely to have arisen
through crossing with other species than through reversion or evolution.
This Station has grown many pure seedlings or crosses of varieties of
Domestica within the species and has had opportunity of examining many
more from other parts of the State, and none of these show reversion to
the other two Old World species. Nor, as we shall see, is there much in
what is known of the history of these three species to lead to the belief
that the Domestica, Insititia and Spinosa plums constitute but one wild
species or have arisen from one.

It has been remarked that there are few, if any, transitional forms
between the Domestica and other European plums. It is a significant fact
that _Prunus domestica_ can be hybridized with other species of plums
only with comparative difficulty, species of plums as a rule hybridizing
very freely. This is as true with the Insititia and Spinosa as of other
plums, there being few recorded hybrids of either of these species with
the one under discussion. Quite to the contrary the varieties of the
several pomological groups of Domestica plums hybridize very freely.
If all were of one species we should expect many hybrids between the
Domestica, Insititia and Spinosa plums.

We are now left with the third hypothesis, which is, as we have indicated
in a preceding paragraph, that the varieties of Domestica plums belong
to one species; or if they have come from more than one species the wild
forms have not been distinguished and must have grown under much more
nearly similar conditions than is the case with _Prunus domestica_ and
any other species. Without knowledge of more than one wild form, and
in view of the intercrossing of the varieties of these plums it seems
best to consider all as parts of one species, leaving to the pomologist
the division of the species into horticultural groups founded on the
characters which make the fruit valuable for cultivation.

Assuming, then, that the plums known in pomology as Domestica plums
belong to one species, the original habitat of the species may be
sought. In spite of the great number of varieties of plums now grown in
Europe and western Asia, and the importance of the fruit both in the
green and dried state, the history of the plums cannot be traced with
much certainty beyond two thousand years. Though stones, without doubt
those of the Insititia or Damson and the Spinosa or Blackthorn plums,
are found in the remains of the lake dwellings in central Europe[7]
the pits of Domestica plums have not yet come to light. In the summer
of 1909 the writer, in visiting historic Pompeii, became interested in
the illustrations of fruits in the frescoes of the ancient buildings,
but neither in the houses of the ruined city nor in the frescoes in the
museums in Naples could he find plums, though several other fruits,
as apples, pears, figs and grapes were many times illustrated. An
examination of the remains of plants preserved in the museum at Naples
taken from under the ashes and pumice covering Pompeii gave the same
results. No stone-fruits were to be found, though if widely used these
should have been on sale in the markets of Pompeii at the time of the
destruction of the city, which occurred late in August,—the very time of
the year at which the examination was made and at which time plums were
everywhere for sale in Rome. This observation is but another indication
that plums were not well-known before the beginning of Christianity,
since Pompeii was destroyed in 79 A. D. In Greek literature the
references to plums are few before the Christian era and these are more
likely to some form of Insititia, as the Damsons, rather than to the
Domesticas.

    Pliny gives the first clear account of Domestica plums and
    speaks of them as if they had been but recently introduced.
    His account is as follows:[8] “Next comes a vast number of
    varieties of the plum, the particolored, the black, the white,
    the barley plum, so-called because it is ripe at Barley
    harvest, and another of the same color as the last, but which
    ripens later, and is of a larger size, generally known as
    the ‘Asinina,’ from the little esteem in which it is held.
    There are the onychina, too, the cerina,—more esteemed, and
    the purple plum; the Armenian, also an exotic from foreign
    parts, the only one among the plums that recommends itself by
    its smell. The plum tree grafted on the nut exhibits what we
    may call a piece of impudence quite its own, for it produces
    a fruit that has all the appearance of the parent stock,
    together with the juice of the adopted fruit; in consequence
    of its being thus compounded of both, it is known by the name
    of ‘nuci-pruna.’ Nut-prunes, as well as the peach, the wild
    plum and the cerina, are often put in casks and so kept till
    the crop comes of the following year. All the other varieties
    ripen with the greatest rapidity and pass off just as quickly.
    More recently, in Baetica, they have begun to introduce what
    they call ‘malina,’ or the fruit of the plum engrafted on the
    apple tree, and ‘amygdalina,’ the fruit of the plum engrafted
    on the almond tree, the kernel found in the stone of these
    last being that of the almond. Indeed, there is no specimen in
    which two fruits have been more ingeniously combined in one.
    Among the foreign trees we have already spoken of the Damascene
    plum, so-called from Damascus, in Syria, but introduced long
    since into Italy, though the stone of this plum is larger than
    usual, and the flesh small in quantity. This plum will never
    dry so far as to wrinkle; to effect that, it needs the sun of
    its own native country. The myxa, too, may be mentioned as
    being the fellow countryman of the Damascene; it has of late
    been introduced into Rome and has been grown engrafted upon the
    sorb.”

While the records are somewhat vague it is probable that the Domestica
plums came from the region about the Caucasus Mountains and the Caspian
Sea and especially the section east of these mountains and the sea. What
seems to be the wild form of this species has been found by several
botanists in this great region.[9] Here the Huns, Turks, Mongols
and Tartars, flowing back and forth in tides of war-like migration,
maintained in times of peace a crude agriculture probably long before
the Greeks and Romans tilled the soil. The plum was one of their fruits
and the dried prune a staple product. Here, still, to the east, west and
north toward central Asia, plums are among the common fruits and prunes
are common articles of trade. Even in the fertile oases of the great
central Asian desert, plums are cultivated, but whether domesticated here
or brought from elsewhere cannot be told. Koch,[10] speaking of prunes
in particular, gives the following account (translated) of their Asiatic
origin:

    “According to my investigation Turkestan and the southern Altai
    Mountains are the place of origin. When in the year 1844 I
    found myself in Baku on the west coast of the Caspian Sea, I
    had plenty of opportunity to draw accounts of the fruits of
    their native lands from the Turkestan and Bokharan merchants,
    and was astonished over the high cultivation of stone fruits
    in these places—at the same time I was able to taste dried the
    most choice because best flavored, the Ali-Bokhara, that is
    Bokhara prune. Some of these Bokharan prunes were transplanted
    a long time ago to Trans-Caucasia and were especially
    cultivated in the ancient city and residence of the Ruler of
    the modern Elizabethpol. Unfortunately the cultivation is less
    now than in earlier times. A further spread toward the west and
    toward Europe, I have not been able to follow. In Greece, the
    prunes are even to-day an unknown fruit.”

At about the time Pliny wrote, or somewhat before, communication had been
opened between the Romans and the countries about the Caspian Sea, and a
few centuries later the devastating hordes of Asiatics came westward and
for several centuries continued to pour into eastern Europe. What more
probable than that they should have carried dried prunes as an article
of food in the invasions, and eventually, as they made settlements here
and there, have introduced the trees in Europe. It is certain, at any
rate, as we shall see, that several of the groups of cultivated plums
trace back to the Balkan countries of Europe and the region eastward.
There, now as then, the plum is a standard fruit and prune-making a great
industry.

The plum when first known in Europe, as described by Pliny and other
early writers, seems to have been a large and well-flavored fruit,
indicating that it had been under cultivation for a long while. This,
and the fact that the fruit was not known by the earliest writers on
agriculture, indicate that the plum was not originally an inhabitant
of southern Europe, as some suppose. It is likely that the tree has
escaped from cultivation and become naturalized in the localities where
it is now supposed to grow wild. _Prunus domestica_ has not been found
wild nor under cultivation in eastern Asia, so far as can be learned by
the botanical and horticultural explorers of China and nearby regions,
_Prunus triflora_ being the domesticated plum of that part of the
continent, though it may well be surmised that some of the Domestica
plums are cultivated in western China, a region as yet but imperfectly
explored for its plants.

Having briefly sketched the origin of the Domestica plums in the
Old World we may now consider their history in the New World—a more
satisfactory task, as data are abundant and reliable.

The Domestica plums are valuable food-producing trees in America but
have not attained here the relative importance among fruits that they
hold in Europe. From the earliest records of fruit-growing in the New
World the plum has been grown less than the apple, pear, peach or cherry,
while in Europe it is a question if it does not rank first or second
among the tree-fruits. The comparatively restricted area which the
Domestica plums now occupy in America is due, perhaps, to the fact that
they do not possess in as high degree as the fruits named above the
power of adaptation to the trans-Atlantic environment. Without question
the feature of environment most uncongenial to plums in America is the
climate. The plum thrives best in an equable climate like that of eastern
and southern Europe and of western America, and cannot endure such
extremes of heat and cold, wet and dry, as are found in parts of eastern
America and in the Mississippi Valley. At best this fruit lacks in what
is called constitution, or ability to withstand adverse conditions of any
kind, whether of climate, culture, insects or fungi. Thus in America this
plum suffers severely not only from climate but from several parasites,
as curculio, black-knot, leaf-blight, plum-pockets and other pests.

We find, therefore, that in North America the Domestica plums are
confined to favored localities on the Atlantic seaboard, the Great
Lakes region and the Pacific coast. In the first named area they are
to be found thriving to a limited degree in Nova Scotia and parts of
Quebec, somewhat in central New England, and particularly well in the
fruit-growing sections of New York, especially in the parts of this State
where the climate is made equable by large bodies of water. South of New
York, excepting in a few localities in Pennsylvania, but few plums of
this species are grown. The Domestica plums are grown with indifferent
success in southern Ontario and in Michigan, and now and then an orchard
is found to the south almost to the Gulf. In the great Valley of the
Mississippi and in the states of the plains this plum is hardly known.
Westward in the irrigated valleys of the Rocky Mountains and the Great
Basin, the climate is favorable and the European plums are nearly as
well-known as in any other portion of the continent excepting the Pacific
Coast.

It is in the last named region that the foreign plum reaches its highest
development in the New World. The trees in California, Oregon and
Washington are very thrifty and the plums are of large size, handsome
appearance and of high quality. Both tree and fruit in this favored
region are free from most of the insect and fungus troubles with which
the eastern plum-growers must contend. Curculio and black-knot, scourges
of eastern orchards, are not troublesome on the western coast. In this
region the Domesticas, practically the only plums cultivated, succeed on
either irrigated or naturally watered lands.

It is probable that some of these plums were introduced into America
by the first colonists, but if so, the early records do not show that
the fruit was much grown in this country until toward the end of
the Eighteenth Century. Certainly during the first two centuries of
colonization in the New World there were no such plum plantations as
there were of the apple, pear and cherry. Among the first importations of
plums were those made by the French in Canada, more particularly in Nova
Scotia, Cape Breton, Prince Edward Island and in favored situations such
as the L’Islet County and the Island of Montreal bordering and in the St.
Lawrence River.

Peter Kalm in his _Travels into North America_ in 1771 records the
culture of plums as far north as Quebec with the statement that “Plum
trees of different sorts brought over from France succeed very well
here,” adding further, “The winters do not hurt them.”[11] There are
other records to show that the French, always distinguished for their
horticultural tastes, if not the first to grow this fruit in America, at
least began its culture at a very early date.

In the voyages undertaken for exploration and commerce soon after the
discovery of America by Columbus the peach was introduced in America by
the Spanish; for soon after permanent settlement had been made in the
South the settlers found this fruit in widespread cultivation by the
Indians and its origin could only be traced to the Spaniards who early
visited Florida and the Gulf region. William Penn wrote as early as
1683 that there were very good peaches in Pennsylvania; “not an Indian
plantation was without them.”[12] The abundance of this fruit was noted
by all the early travelers in the region from Pennsylvania southward
and westward but though the wild plums are often mentioned there are no
records of cultivated plums until the colonies had long been established.

In Massachusetts some plums were planted by the Pilgrims, for Francis
Higginson, writing in 1629, says: “Our Governor hath already planted
a vineyard with great hope of increase. Also mulberries, plums,
raspberries, corrance, chestnuts, filberts, walnuts, smalnuts,
hurtleberries.”[13] The plums were Damsons, as a statement is made a
little later that the “Red Kentish is the only cherry and the Damson the
only plum cultivated.” A further reference to this plum is made by John
Josselyn, when, writing of a voyage to New England in 1663, he says, “The
_Quinces_, _Cherries_, _Damsons_, set the dames a work, _marmalad_ and
preserved Damsons is to be met with in every house.”[14]

In 1797 there is the following concise account of the plums cultivated in
New England:[15]

    “The better sorts which are cultivated are the horse plum, a
    very pleasant tasted fruit, of large size; the peach plum, red
    toward the sun, with an agreeable tartness; the pear plum,
    so-called from its shape, which is sweet, and of an excellent
    taste; the wheat plum, extremely sweet, oval, and furrowed in
    the middle, not large; the green-gage plum, which is generally
    preferred before all the rest.”

A search in the colonial records of Pennsylvania, New Jersey and
Delaware shows no records of cultivated plums in these states until the
establishment of the Bartram Botanic Garden near Philadelphia in 1728.
Here John Bartram grew fruits, trees and flowers of many kinds received
through exchanges of indigenous species with European correspondents.
Among the plants sent over from Europe to Bartram were several varieties
of plums which were propagated and distributed throughout Pennsylvania
and nearby provinces. It must not be supposed, however, that the
Domestica plums had not been grown in Pennsylvania previous to Bartram’s
time. The plum grows fairly well in localities of this region, and
without question it had been planted by the early colonists with seeds
brought from across the sea. But the absence of references to the plum,
where they abound to the apple, pear, peach, quince and cherry, shows
that this fruit was not much cultivated by the Quakers and Swedes who
settled in the three states watered by the Delaware.

In the southern colonies the Domestica plums grow but poorly, and as the
early settlers of these states were chiefly concerned with tobacco and
cotton, paying little attention to fruits, we should expect the plum to
have been neglected. Then, too, the peach, escaped from the early Spanish
settlements, grew spontaneously in many parts of the South, furnishing,
with the wild plums of the region, an abundant supply of stone-fruits.
Yet the plum was early introduced in several of the southern colonies.

Thus Beverly,[16] writing in 1722 of Virginia, says: “Peaches, Nectarines
and Apricocks, as well as plums and cherries, grow there upon standard
trees,” with the further statement that these fruits grew so exceedingly
well that there was no need of grafting or inoculating them. Lawson,[17]
in his history of North Carolina, written in 1714, says that the Damson,
Damazeen and a large, round, black plum were the only sorts of this fruit
grown in that state in 1714.

In South Carolina Henry Laurens, who should be accounted a benefactor
not only of that State but of the whole country as well, about the
middle of the Eighteenth Century grew in Laurens Square in the Town of
Amonborough all the plants suitable to that climate that widely extended
merchantile connections enabled him to procure. Thus among fruits he grew
olives, limes, Alpine strawberries, European raspberries and grapes,
apples, pears and plums. John Watson, one of Laurens’ gardeners, planted
the first nursery in South Carolina. His plantation was laid waste in
the Revolution, though it was afterwards revived by himself and his
descendants and was still further continued by Robert Squib. The plum in
several varieties was largely grown and distributed from this nursery.

Charleston, South Carolina, was at the beginning of the Nineteenth
Century the southern center of horticultural activities and the European
plum was widely distributed from here at this time. Of the several
botanic gardens, really nurseries, in Charleston, one was conducted by
André Michaux who was sent by the French Government in 1786 to collect
American plants. Another was owned by John Champneys at St. Pauls, near
Charleston, and was managed by a Mr. Williamson who grew all of the
species of trees, fruits and shrubs, native and foreign, which could be
procured.[18] The third of these gardens was owned by Charles Drayton at
St. Andrews in which not only exotic fruits were grown but those of the
region as well. The plum trees frequently mentioned in the records of the
time as growing in this region came from these nurseries.

In Florida, as has been stated, the peach was introduced by the Spanish
explorers, but if the plum were also planted by the Spaniards it
quickly passed out with the cessation of cultivation. But later there
are records[19] of this and nearly all of the fruits of temperate and
sub-tropic climates having been grown at St. Augustine and Pensacola. In
the remarkable colony[20] founded by Dr. Andrew Turnbull at New Smyrna,
Florida, in 1763, the plum was one of the fruits cultivated. It is not
probable, however, that the culture of this fruit was ever extensive in
Florida as it does not thrive there.

William Bartram, son of John Bartram the founder of the Bartram Botanic
Garden, set out on a botanical expedition through the Southern States
in 1773, which lasted five years. He records[21] numerous observations
on the horticulture of both the colonists and the Indians. At Savannah,
Georgia, he found gardens furnished with all the cultivated fruit trees
and flowers in variety. One of the earliest settlements made by the
English in Georgia was Frederica, and here he found the peach, fig,
pomegranate and other trees and shrubs growing about the ruins; though
not specifically mentioned, the plum had probably been planted here with
the other fruits. At the junction of the Coose and Tallapoosa rivers
in Alabama, there were thriving apple trees, which had been set by the
French at Pearl Island in the last named state. Between Mobile and New
Orleans, Bartram found peaches, figs, grapes, plums and other fruits
growing to a high degree of perfection and such also was the case on a
plantation on the Mississippi in Louisiana near Baton Rouge.

These several references to plums show that this fruit was at least tried
in early colonial times, but it was not until after the establishment
of fruit-growing as an industry that any extensive plantings were made.
Pomology really began in America, though it languished for the first
half-century, at Flushing, Long Island, about 1730 with the establishment
of a commercial nursery by Robert Prince, first of four proprietors. Just
when this nursery, afterwards the famous Linnaean Botanic Garden, began
to offer plums cannot be said, but in 1767 one of their advertisements
shows that they were selling plum trees. As a possible indication that
the fruit was not highly esteemed at this period, an advertisement of
trees for sale from this nursery in the _New York Mercury_ of March 14th,
1774, does not offer plums. But in 1794 the catalog of the nursery offers
plums in variety. Indeed, as we shall see, William Prince had at this
time taken hold of the propagation and improvement of the Domestica plums
with great earnestness.

William Prince, third proprietor of the nursery founded by his
grandfather says in his _Treatise of Horticulture_,[22] “that his father,
about the year 1790 planted the pits of twenty-five quarts of Green Gage
plums; these produced trees yielding fruit of every color; and the White
Gage [Prince’s Imperial Gage], Red Gage and Prince’s Gage, now so well
known, form part of the progeny of these plums, and there seems strong
presumptive evidence to suppose that the Washington Plum was one of the
same collection.” In 1828 the Prince nursery was offering for sale one
hundred and forty varieties of plums which William Prince states[23] “are
a selection only of the choicest kinds, in making which, the commoner
fruits have been altogether rejected.” Of the kinds grown, there were
over twenty thousand trees.[24] To this nursery, to William Prince and to
William Robert Prince,[25] the fourth proprietor in particular, belong
the credit of having given plum-growing its greatest impetus in America.

Other notable nurseries founded at the close of the Eighteenth Century,
which helped to establish plum culture in America, were those of the
Kenricks, of William Coxe, and of David Landreth and Son. The Kenrick
Nursery was founded in 1790 at Newton, Massachusetts, by John Kenrick,
under whom and his sons, William and John A., the business was continued
until 1870.[26] During a large part of this period the Kenrick Nursery
probably grew, imported and disposed of a greater quantity of fruit trees
than any other nursery in New England. Coxe’s nursery was established
in 1806, at Burlington, New Jersey, but he had been growing fruit for
many years previous and was thus a pioneer pomologist before becoming
a nurseryman. In his book, _A View of the Cultivation of Fruit Trees_,
published in 1817, the first American book on pomology, he says[27]
he had been “for many years actively engaged in the rearing, planting
and cultivating of fruit trees on a scale more extensive than has been
attempted by any other individual of this country.” The third of these
nurseries, that of David Landreth and Son, was conducted in connection
with the seed establishment of that family founded in Philadelphia in
1784. Their collection of fruits was among the most extensive of the time
and must have forwarded the cultivation of the plum in that region.[28]

A century ago the fruit-growing of the country was largely in the hands
of amateurs and patrons of horticulture. Many varieties of plums must
have been introduced by these lovers of plants. Among such growers of
fruit was William Hamilton of Philadelphia, who introduced the Lombardy
poplar in 1784, and who in 1800 was growing all the plants and fruits
procurable in Europe. Ezekiel Henry Derby of Salem, Massachusetts, one
of the founders of the Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture,
grew many choice foreign plants in his garden, greenhouse, orchard and
arboretum, and attained well merited fame as a horticulturist.[29] Dr.
David Hosack, botanist and founder in 1801 of the Elgin Botanic Gardens
in what is now New York City, was one of the most distinguished patrons
of pomology of his time and grew many new fruits and plants from Europe,
afterwards placing them in the hands of the horticulturists of the
country.[30]

These are but a very few of the many men who, having wealth and leisure,
were engaged in growing fruits and plants as an avocation but were adding
greatly to the material and knowledge of those to whom fruit-growing was
a vocation. As a further example of how much these men contributed to
horticulture, a purchase made by a member of the New York Horticultural
Society may be cited. At a meeting of the Society held in July, 1822,
he mentioned a list of fruit trees which he had purchased in Europe,
comprising 784 varieties.[31]

The period during which American pomology may be said to have been in the
hands of wealthy amateurs began shortly after the close of the Revolution
and did not fully merge into that of commercial pomology until the close
of the Civil War. Soon after the beginning of the Nineteenth Century,
horticulture, in fact all agriculture, was greatly stimulated by the
publication of agricultural books[32] and magazines[33] and the formation
of agricultural and horticultural societies.[34] The frequency of the
names of these publications of a century ago in _The Plums of New York_
is an indication of the contributions they made to the culture of the
plum.

Having briefly outlined the history of the Domestica plums, we come now
to a discussion of what we have under cultivation in this fruit. The
Domestica plums, 950 or more mentioned in this text, may be divided
into several more or less distinct pomological groups. These groups are
of interest because in their history the evolution of the plum under
consideration is further developed; because such groups are serviceable
to plum-growers, as each division has adaptation for particular
conditions or particular purposes; and because of their value to the
breeder of plums since the largest and best differentiated groups, as a
rule, have their characters most strongly fixed and may be relied upon to
best transmit them to their offspring.

Groups of plums in pomology are founded for most part upon the characters
of the fruit since these are most readily recognized by fruit-growers.
Yet whenever possible, leaf, flower and tree-characters are considered.
The name given is usually that of the best known variety in the group
though in some of the divisions the name is that of the variety which
seems to be intermediate in character between the other members of the
group.

The groups of plums recognized by pomologists were far more distinct
as we go back in their history. For, in the past, each fruit-growing
region had a pomology of its own in which the varieties of any fruit
were few and similar, constituting but one, or at most a very few types.
The various groups of plums, therefore, largely represent distinct
plum-growing regions. With the increase in intercourse between the
countries of the world, cultivated plums have been taken from place to
place and as new varieties have originated, often from crosses between
varieties, the dividing lines between divisions have been more or less
broken down. The first of the groups to be considered is:—

_The Reine Claude or Green Gage Plums._—This group is so distinctive
in several characters that some botanists and pomologists separate it
from other Domestica plums as a sub-species or species[35] and in common
parlance its numerous varieties are very generally grouped together as
“green gages” as if it were quite a distinct fruit from other plums. It
comprises a considerable number of relatively small, round, mostly green
or golden plums of so high quality as to make them standards in this
respect for all plums. The Reine Claude is one of the oldest types of
which there are records. Its varieties reproduce themselves without much
variation from seed though there are a few sorts, possibly crosses with
some other group, which are doubtfully referred to the Reine Claudes. The
later history of these plums is most interesting and is reliable, for the
group is recognized and discussed by almost every European or American
pomologist who has written in three centuries.[36] The early history is
not so well known.

Where the Reine Claude plums originated no one knows. Koch[37] says
he has eaten wild plums in the Trans-Caucasian region, which must be
recorded with the Reine Claudes, but on the next page he advances
the theory that the group is a hybrid between _Prunus domestica_ and
_Prunus insititia_. Schneider[38] puts the Reine Claudes in _Prunus
insititia_. The group seems to be a connecting link between the two
species named above, having so many characters in common with each
that it is exceedingly difficult to choose between the two as possible
parent species. _Prunus domestica_ probably originated in the Caucasian
or Caspian region, and it is likely, as Koch suggests, that the Reine
Claudes were brought from there. This is substantiated by the early
pomologists, who say these plums came originally from Armenia and were
known as the Armenian plums, coming eventually by the way of Greece to
Italy. If this statement of its origin be true, Columella[39] knew the
fruit, for he says:

    —“then are the wicker baskets cramm’d
    With Damask and Armenian and Wax plums.”

And so, too, Pliny refers to them[40] in his enumeration of varieties in
which he says: “the Armenian, also an exotic from foreign parts, the only
one among the plums that recommends itself by its smell.”

Hogg[41] says the Reine Claudes were brought from Greece to Italy and
cultivated in the latter country under the name Verdochia. Hogg does not
give his authority and his statement cannot be verified in any other of
the modern European pomologies to which the authors of this work have had
access. The very complete history of the agricultural and horticultural
plants of Italy[42] by Dr. Antonio Targioni-Tozzetti does not give this
name. Be that as it may, some variety of this group was introduced
into England under the name Verdoch and at an early date, for in 1629
Parkinson[43] enumerates it in his sixty sorts describing it as “a great,
fine, green shining plum fit to preserve.” Rea[44] in 1676 also lists and
describes it as does Ray,[45] 1688.

It is doubtful if Parkinson, Ray and Rea had the true Reine Claude,
however, for the Verdacchio, according to Gallesio,[46] one of the best
Italian authorities, is an obovate-shaped fruit while the Claudia is a
round one. Gallesio says the Claudia was cultivated in many places about
Genoa under the name Verdacchio rotondo; about Rome and through Modenese,
for a long time, as the Mammola; in Piedmont as the Claudia; and in
Tuscany as the Susina Regina. Now (1839) he says, “it is known in all
Italy under the name Claudia, and has become so common as to be found in
abundance in the gardens and in the markets.”

The name Reine Claude, all writers agree, was given in honor of Queen
Claude, wife of Francis I, the fruit having been introduced into France
during the reign of that monarch which began in 1494 and ended 1547,
these dates fixing as accurately as possible the origin of the name.
Green Gage, the commonest synonym of either the Reine Claude group or
of the variety, comes from the fact that this fruit was introduced into
England by the Gage family. Phillips[47] gives the following account of
its introduction into England:

    “The Gage family, in the last century, procured from the
    monastery of the Chartreuse at Paris, a collection of fruit
    trees. When these trees arrived at the Mansion of Hengrave
    Hall, the tickets were safely affixed to all of them, excepting
    only to the Reine Claude, which had either not been put on, or
    had been rubbed off in the package. The gardener, therefore,
    being ignorant of the name, called it, when it first bore
    fruit, the Green Gage.”

Because of the high esteem in which the plums of this group have always
been held in England the early English colonists probably brought
seeds or plants of the Reine Claudes to America. This supposition is
strengthened by the fact that Prince, in his efforts in 1790 to improve
plums, chose the “Green Gage,” planting the pits of twenty-five quarts of
plums of this variety. McMahon, in his list of thirty varieties of plums,
published in 1806, gives the names of at least seven varieties belonging
to this group. The varieties of the group first came into America,
without doubt, under one of the Green Gage names, but afterwards,
probably in the early part of the Nineteenth Century, importations from
France brought several varieties under Reine Claude names though the
identity of the plums under the two names seems to have been recognized
in American pomology from the first.

In appearance the trees of this group are low and the heads well rounded.
The bark is dark in color and cracks rather deeply. The shoots are thick
and do not lose their pubescence. The leaves are large, broad, more
or less wrinkled, coarsely crenate and sometimes doubly serrated, a
character not usually found in Domestica plums, and bear from one to four
glands. The fruit is spherical or ovoid, green or yellow, sometimes with
a faint blush, stems short and pubescent, suture shallow, bloom thin,
texture firm, quality of the best, flesh sweet, tender, juicy, stone free
or clinging.

The leading varieties of the Reine Claude plums are: Reine Claude, Bavay,
Spaulding, Yellow Gage, Washington, McLaughlin, Hand, Peters, Imperial
Gage, Jefferson and Bryanston.

_The Prunes._—In western America plum-growers usually speak of any plum
that can be cured, without removing the pit, into a firm, long-keeping
product as a prune. Such a classification throws all plums with a large
percentage of solids, especially of sugar, into this group. But in Europe
the term is used to designate a distinct pomological group.[48] Since we
have a number of varieties of plums long known as prunes and to which no
other term can be nearly so well applied, it seems wise to follow the
established European custom of using the term as a group name as well as
for a commercial product which is made for most part from these plums.

The prune, as an article of commerce, all writers agree, originated in
Hungary in the Sixteenth Century and was at that time a very important
trading commodity with Germany, France and southern Europe. If, as Koch
surmises (see page 17), the prunes originated in Turkestan or farther
east—and the statements of other botanists and writers tend to show that
his view is correct—the spread of the varieties of this group westward
is readily explained. In the migrations of the Huns, from western Asia
to eastern Europe, in the first thousand years of the Christian era,
some Magyar or Hun intent on cultivating the soil brought with him the
prune-making plums which, finding a congenial home, became the foundation
of the prune industry of Hungary in the Sixteenth Century. In subsequent
commercial intercourse with western Europe the latter region was enriched
by these prune-making plums from Hungary.

In America this group is now by far the most important one commercially,
though prunes were not introduced into this country until comparatively
recent years. The early lists of plums do not include any of the prunes
and even as late as 1806 McMahon only mentions in the thirty varieties
given by him but one, “the Prune Plum.” William Prince in 1828 speaks
only of the “monstrous prune,”[49] but in such a way as to lead one to
believe that neither it, nor any other prune, was then cultivated in
America.[50] In 1831 William Robert Prince in his _Pomological Manual_
describes from this group only the German Prune and the “Agen Date,” or
Agen. Indeed, it was not until the beginning of the prune industry in
California, about 1870, that the varieties of this group began to be at
all popular though an attempt was made by the United States Patent Office
to start the prune industry on the Atlantic seaboard by the distribution
of cions of two prunes in 1854.[51]

The growth of the prune industry on the Pacific Coast is one of the most
remarkable industrial phenomena of American agriculture. About 1856,
Louis Pellier, a sailor, brought to San Jose, California, cions of the
Agen from Agen, France. Some time afterward a larger plum, the Pond, was
also imported from France, supposedly from Agen, and to distinguish the
two, the first was called Petite Prune, by which name it is now very
commonly known in the far west. The first cured prunes from this region
were exhibited at the California State Fair in 1863; commercial orchards
began to be planted about 1870, and the first shipments of cured prunes
were probably made in 1875.[52] In 1880 the output per annum was about
200,000 pounds; in 1900 the yearly capacity was estimated to be about
130,000,000 pounds, valued by the producers at $450,000.[53]

The typical varieties of this group are the Italian, German, Agen,
Tragedy, Tennant, Sugar, Giant, Pacific and the Ungarish.

The distinguishing characters of the group are to be found in the fruit,
which is usually large, oval, with one side straighter than the other,
usually much compressed with a shallow suture, blue or purple, with a
heavy bloom, flesh greenish-yellow or golden, firm, quality good, stone
free. The trees are various but are usually large, upright and spreading
with elliptical leaves having much pubescence on the under surface.

_The Perdrigon Plums._—The Perdrigons constitute an old but comparatively
unimportant group of plums.[54] The name comes from an old time
geographical division of Italy.[55] The Perdrigon plums, especially the
varieties having this name, have been grown extensively for two centuries
about Brignoles, France, where they are cured and sold as Brignoles
prunes. Since they are much grown in what was formerly the province of
Touraine, France, they are sometimes called Touraine plums. The early
pomological writers, as the Princes, Kenrick, Coxe, and even Downing,
described White, Red, Violet, Early and Norman Perdrigon plums, but
these are not now listed in either the pomologies or the nurserymen’s
catalogs of this country though the group is represented by Goliath, Late
Orleans and Royal Tours. These plums might almost be included with the
Imperatrice group, differing only in the smaller and rounder fruits.

_The Yellow Egg Plums._[56]—There are but few varieties belonging to this
group, but these are very distinct, and include some of the largest and
handsomest plums. The origin of varieties of this group can be traced
back over three centuries and it is somewhat remarkable that the size
and beauty of the Yellow Egg Plums have not tempted growers during this
time to produce a greater number of similar varieties. Rea,[57] in 1676,
described the Yellow Egg under “Magnum Bonum or the Dutch Plum” as “a
very great oval-formed yellowish plum, and, according to the name, is
good as well as great.” The Imperial, which afterward became the Red
Magnum Bonum, is mentioned by Parkinson[58] in 1629 as “Large, long,
reddish, waterish and late.” Earlier names in France, how early cannot be
said, were Prune d’Oeuf, yellow, white, red and violet, or the Mogul with
these several colors, and the Imperiale with the three or four colors.
Later the name d’Aubert was applied to the Yellow Egg. Though this fruit
was first known in England as the Imperiall, and later as the Magnum
Bonum, it has been grown for at least two centuries in that country as
the Yellow Egg, and under this name came to America in the latter part
of the Eighteenth Century. Koch[59] places these plums in the Date-plum
family. The varieties of this group now grown and more or less well-known
are Yellow Egg, Red Magnum Bonum, Golden Drop and Monroe.

The characters which readily distinguish the Yellow Egg group are,—the
large size of the fruit, possibly surpassing all other plums in size,
the long-oval shape, more or less necked, yellow or purple color and the
yellow flesh. The plums are produced on tall, upright-spreading trees.

_The Imperatrice Plums._—This is a poorly defined assemblage of
varieties, of which dark blue color, heavy bloom, medium size and oval
shape are the chief characters. It is impossible to trace the origin of
the group or to refer varieties to it with accuracy. The Imperatrice,
of which Ickworth is an offspring, seems to have been one of the first
of the blue plums to receive general recognition, and can as well as
any other variety give name to the type. This group contains by far the
greatest number of varieties of any of the divisions as here outlined,
chiefly because the color, the size, and the shape are all popular with
growers and consumers. This has not always been the case, for in the old
pomologies, blue plums are comparatively few in number, Parkinson, for
instance, giving in his list of sixty in 1629 not more than a half-dozen
Domesticas that are blue.

Among the varieties that fall into this group are:—Ickworth, Diamond,
Arch Duke, Monarch, Englebert, Shipper, Arctic, Smith Orleans and
Quackenboss.

About the only characters that will hold for this large and variable
group are those of the fruits as given above, though to these may be
added for most of the varieties included in the division, thick skin and
firm flesh, clinging stones and poor quality. The trees vary much but are
usually hardy, thrifty and productive, making the members of the group
prime favorites with commercial fruit-growers.

_The Lombard Plums._—Just as the blue plums have been thrown in the last
named group, so we may roughly classify a number of red or reddish or
mottled varieties in one group. If the oldest name applicable to this
group were given it should be called after the Diaper plums, well-known
and much cultivated French sorts of two and three centuries ago. Since
they are no longer cultivated, and as the Lombard seems to be a direct
offspring of them and is fairly typical of the division, the name chosen
is as applicable as any. These plums differ but little from those of the
preceding group, except in color and in having a more obovate shape, a
more marked suture, smaller size and possibly even greater hardiness and
productiveness, and if anything, even poorer quality, though to this last
statement there are several marked exceptions. In this group are no doubt
many varieties which are crosses between some of the old red plums and
varieties of the other groups given.

The following sorts may be named as belonging here:—Lombard, Bradshaw,
Victoria, Pond, Duane, Autumn Compote, Belle, Middleburg and Field.


=2.= =PRUNUS INSITITIA= Linnaeus

[Illustration: _PRUNUS INSITITIA_]

    =1.= Linnaeus _Amoen. Acad._ =4=:273. 1755. =2.= Seringe _DC.
    Prodr._ =2=:532. 1825. =3.= Hooker _Brit. Fl._ 220. 1830. =4.=
    Loudon _Arb. Fr. Brit._ =2=:687. 1844. =5.= Koch, K. _Dend._
    =1=:95. 1869. =6.= Ibid. _Deut. Obst._ 144. 1876. =7.= De
    Candolle _Or. Cult. Pl._ 211. 1885. =8.= Emerson _Trees of
    Mass._ Ed. =4=:512. 1887. =9.= Schwarz _Forst. Bot._ 339. 1892.
    =10.= Koch, W. _Syn. Deut. und Schw. Fl._ =1=:726. 1892. =11.=
    Koehne _Deut. Dend._ 316. 1893. =12.= Dippel _Handb. Laubh._
    =3=:639. 1893. =13.= Lucas. _Handb. Obst._ 429. 1893. =14.=
    Beck von Managetta _Nied. Oester._ 819. 1893.

    _P. communis_ (in part). =15.= Hudson _Fl. Anglic._ 212. 1778.
    =16.= Bentham _Handb. Brit. Fl._ =1=:236. 1865.

    _P. domestica insititia._ =17.= Schneider _Handb. Laubh._
    =1=:630. 1892. =18.= Waugh _Bot. Gaz._ =27=:478. 1899.

    Tree dwarfish but thrifty, attaining a height of twenty to
    twenty-five feet; trunk reaches eight inches in diameter and
    bears its head rather low, three to five feet from the ground;
    bark gray with a tinge of red, smooth, with transverse cracks;
    branches upright-spreading, rigid, compact, short-jointed,
    and more or less thorny; branchlets pubescent, slender,
    reddish-brown or drab.

    Winter-buds small, conical, pointed or obtuse, free or
    appressed; leaves small, ovate or obovate; apex obtuse or
    abruptly pointed, base cuneate or narrowed and rounded, margins
    finely and closely, sometimes doubly serrate or crenate,
    usually glandular; texture thin and firm; upper surface
    slightly rugose, dark green, slightly hairy; lower surface
    paler and soft, pubescent; petioles one-half inch long,
    slender, pubescent, tinged with red; glands few or glandless.

    Flowers expand with or after the leaves, one inch or less
    in size; borne variously but usually in lateral, umbel-like
    clusters, one, two or rarely three from a bud, on slender
    pedicels, which are pubescent and one-half inch in length;
    calyx-tube campanulate, glabrous or nearly so, green or
    tinged with red; calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse or acute,
    glandular-serrate, glabrous or pubescent, reflexed; petals
    white or creamy in the bud, broadly oval, entire or dentate,
    reflexed, claw short; stamens about twenty-five, as long as the
    petals; anthers yellow, often tinged with red; pistil glabrous
    and nearly as long as the stamens.

    Fruit ripens from early to late; globular or oval, often
    necked, less than an inch in diameter, variously colored but
    usually bluish-black or amber-yellow, with a heavy bloom; skin
    thin, tough; stem slender, one-half inch long, more or less
    pubescent; cavity shallow, narrow; apex roundish or flattened;
    suture indistinct or a line; flesh firm, yellow, juicy, sweet
    or acid; stone clinging or free, somewhat turgid, ovoid, nearly
    smooth, ridged on one edge and grooved on the other.

There is a great diversity of opinion among botanists as to what Linnaeus
meant to include in his _Prunus insititia_. His description of the
species is not definite and can be made to apply to any one of several
very distinct plums. But the botanists who recognize the species usually
include in it, among cultivated plums, the Bullaces and the Damsons,
plums which differ only in the shape of the fruit, the former being round
and the latter oval. Some of the texts noted in the references for this
species also place the St. Julien and the Mirabelle plums here. In _The
Plums of New York_ the authors consider the Bullaces, Damsons, the St.
Julien and the Mirabelles as belonging to this species.

It is true that Linnaeus established at an earlier date than the naming
of _Prunus insititia_ his _Prunus domestica damascena_, in which the
varietal name indicates that he meant the Damsons, but the description
of the variety taken by him from Bauhin’s Pinax[60] making the plum
large, sweet and dark purplish, cannot be made to apply to this fruit,
nor can it be connected definitely with any other plum; this being true,
and since Linnaeus refers to no type specimen, figure, or locality, his
_Prunus domestica damascena_ according to current botanical practices in
America, should be rejected.

The trees of the Insititia varieties are readily distinguished from
the Domestica sorts in having a dwarfer and more compact habit; much
smaller and more ovate leaves with more closely serrate margins; branches
more finely divided, more slender, with shorter joints, and bearing
spines or spinescent spurs; having a more abundant and a more clustered
inflorescence, with smaller flowers, a glabrous instead of a pubescent
pistil and calyx-tube; reflexed calyx-lobes where in Domestica they
are often erect; and flowers appearing nearly a week later. The number
of stamens in _Prunus domestica_ averages about thirty; in _Prunus
insititia_, about twenty-five. The fruit-characters of _Prunus insititia_
are even more distinctive. The fruits are smaller, being less than an
inch in diameter, more nearly round or oval, more uniform in shape, never
strongly compressed as in Domestica, with a less distinct suture and more
often with a pronounced neck. The color is usually the Damson purple or
the Mirabelle yellow, with no intermediate colors as in Domestica and
with few or but slight variations as compared with the other species.
The plums are sweet or sour with a very much smaller range in flavor in
the case of the Insititias and withal very distinct from that of _Prunus
domestica_. The stones are smaller, more oval and much more swollen.

In variability the Insititia plums are quite the reverse of the
Domesticas, almost wholly lacking this quality. These plums have been
cultivated over two thousand years, yet there is seemingly little
difference between the sorts described by the Greeks and Romans at the
beginning of the Christian Era and those we are now growing. So, too, one
often finds half-wild chance seedlings with fruit indistinguishable from
varieties under the highest cultivation. This pronounced immutability of
the species is one of its chief characteristics.

There are probably several sub-divisions of _Prunus insititia_ but
material does not exist in America for the proper determination of the
true place for these forms, and the Old World botanists cannot agree in
regard to them. It is probable that _Prunus subsylvestris_ Boutigny[61]
and _Prunus pomarium_ Boutigny[62] belong to _Prunus insititia_ and
almost beyond question _Prunus syriaca_ Koehne[63] is the yellow-fruited
Mirabelle of this species. _Prunus insititia glaberrima_ Wirtg,[64]
occasionally found in the herbaria of Europe has, with its small,
roundish-obovate leaves, but little appearance of _Prunus insititia_ and
may be, as Schneider surmises,[65] a cross between _Prunus spinosa_ and
the Myrobalan of _Prunus cerasifera_.

The Insititia plums are second in importance only to the Domesticas.
Their recorded history is older. This is the plum of the Greek poets,
Archilochus and Hippona, in the Sixth Century B. C.[66] Theophrastus,
the philosopher, mentioned it three hundred years before Christ, as
did Pollux, the writer and grammarian, a century before the Savior,
while Dioscorides, the founder of botany, during the last named period,
distinguishes between this plum and one from Syria, presumably a
Domestica. This is one of the twelve kinds of plums described by Pliny
(see page 17) who calls it the Damascene, so-called from Damascus in
Syria, and says of it, “introduced long since into Italy.” It is the
Damask plum of Columella when in his tenth book he says:

      “then are the wicker baskets cramm’d
    With Damask and Armenian and Wax plums.”

The yellow plums of the Roman poets, Ovid and Vergil, are probably the
Bullaces or Mirabelles of this species. Indeed, its cultivation was
probably prehistoric, for Heer[67] has illustrated and described stones
of a plum found in the lake-dwellings of Robenhausen which can be no
other than those of Insititia.

The authentic written history of this plum may be said to have begun with
or a little before the Christian Era. The records of the cultivation and
development through the early centuries of the present chronology and
the Middle Ages to our own day may be found in the herbals, botanies,
pomologies, agricultural and general literature of the past two thousand
years.

_Prunus insititia_ now grows wild in nearly all temperate parts of Europe
and western Asia—from the Mediterranean northward into Norway, Sweden and
Russia. The botanists of Europe very generally agree that its original
habitat was in southern and southeastern Europe and the adjoining parts
of Asia, and that elsewhere it is an escape from cultivation. Hooker[68]
says that _Prunus insititia_ grows in western temperate Himalaya,
cultivated and indigenous, from Gurwhal to Kashmir, the type being that
of the “common yellow-fruited Bullace.” A few botanical writers hold that
it is truly wild in the parts of Europe where now found growing. There
are also not a few botanists who, as has been stated in the discussion of
the Domestica plums, unite the Insititias with the Domesticas, and others
who combine these two with the Spinosa plums in one species, _Prunus
communis_.[69]

It is possible that the species is occasionally found naturalized in
eastern United States; several botanists so give it.

Wherever the habitat of the Insititia plums may have been, practically
all writers from the Greeks and Romans who first mention this fruit to
those of the present time, connect the cultivated varieties in one way
or another with the old Semite city, Damascus. It is almost certain
that the Syrians or Persians were the first to cultivate these plums,
and that they were unknown in Europe as domesticated varieties until
the Greeks first and the Romans afterward came in intimate contact with
the people of the Orient. Thus it is often stated in the old pomologies
that Alexander the Great brought these plums from the Orient after his
expedition of conquest and that some centuries later Pompey, returning
from his invasion of the eastern countries, brought plums to the Roman
Empire.

The history of the Insititia plums in America has been given in the main
in the discussion of the Domestica plums, for the varieties of the two
species have never been kept separate by plum-growers, all being grouped
together as European plums. It is probable, however, that the Damson
plums of this species were earlier introduced and more generally grown
than any other of the European plums by the English settlers of America,
as the references to plum-growing before the Revolution are largely to
the Damsons. The reasons for this early preference for these plums are
that they come true to seed while most varieties of the Domestica do not;
and trees and cions were not readily transportable in colonial times;
and, too, the Damsons have always been favorite plums with the English.

When the first American fruit books were published at the beginning of
the Nineteenth Century the Damsons and Bullaces were widely grown, for
all writers give a relatively large number of varieties of these plums
and speak well of them. Thus McMahon,[70] in his list of thirty plums
gives six that belong here, ending his list with “Common Damson, etc.,”
as if there were still more than those he enumerates. Prince, in his
_Pomological Manual_, in 1832, gives at least eighteen sorts that may
be referred to Insititia with the statement that one of them, the Early
Damson “appears to have been brought to this country by the early Dutch
settlers, or by the French who settled here at the time of the revocation
of the Edict of Nantes,” adding, “It is much disseminated throughout this
section of the country.” At the end of the Eighteenth Century Deane’s[71]
_New England Farmer or Georgical Dictionary_, in a discussion of plums
in general says: “The most common plum in this country is the Damascene
plum, an excellent fruit for preserving, which is said to have been
brought from Damasam, hence the name.”

The hardiness, thriftiness and productiveness of all of the varieties
of this species commend them to those who cannot give the care required
to grow the less easily grown Domesticas, and in America, as in Europe,
these plums are to be found in almost every orchard and in many
communities half-wild, thriving with little or no care. The fact that
they are easily propagated, growing readily from suckers and coming true
to seed is an added reason for their general distribution.

The Insititia plums do not seem to hybridize freely with other species—at
least there are no recorded offspring of such hybrids, though Koch
believes the Reine Claudes to be a hybrid group between this species and
the Domesticas and there is much evidence in the fruit to show that the
French Damson is part Domestica. The tree-characters of the Insititia
plums are such, especially as regards vigor, hardiness, productiveness
and freedom from disease, as to seemingly make hybrids with them very
desirable. That this species can be hybridized with Domestica, at least,
is certain from work done at this Station where we have made a number of
crosses between them.

Four groups of plums, the Damsons, Bullaces, Mirabelles and St. Juliens,
in all eighty-six varieties mentioned in _The Plums of New York_, may be
referred to this species. There are so few real differences between these
divisions, however, that it is hardly possible, logically, to sub-divide
Insititia plums into more than two groups. But since the groups of plums
given above are so often referred to in pomological works it is necessary
to discuss them.

_The Damsons._—The description given the species fits this division of
it closely, the differentiating character for the fruit, if any, being
oval fruits, while the Bullaces, most nearly like these, are round. The
origin of the Damsons, as we have seen, was in Syria and near the ancient
city, Damascus, their written history dating back several centuries
before Christ. This plum has escaped from cultivation in nearly all the
temperate parts of Europe and more or less in the eastern United States,
the wild forms often passing under other names, as the Wild, Wheat,
Spilling, Donkey, Ass, Hog and Horse plums. The true Damsons have a
fine spicy taste, which makes them especially desirable for cooking and
preserving, but a very decided astringency of the skin makes most of the
varieties of Damsons undesirable to eat out of the hand; this astringency
largely disappears with cooking or after a light frost. Nearly all
Damsons are sour, though a few sweet Insititias are placed in this group.

Since the seeds grow readily and the sprouts are very manageable, the
Damsons, with the other Insititias, are much used as stocks upon which to
work other plums, especially the less hardy and less thrifty Domesticas.
Although less used now than formerly for stocks it is a question if these
plums, or some of their near kin, do not make the best obtainable stocks.
There seems to be much difference in the varieties of Insititia in their
capacity to send up sprouts. The forms which send up the fewest sprouts
are much the best for use as stocks.

Curiously enough, the Damsons are highly esteemed now only by the
Americans and English, being grown much less at present in Continental
Europe than a century or two ago. Late pomological works and
nurserymen’s catalogs from others than the English or Americans barely
mention these plums.

_The Bullaces._—It is impossible to distinguish between the
tree-characters of the Damsons and the Bullaces, and pomologists are far
from agreeing as to what differences in the fruit throw a variety into
one group or the other. Some writers call a sour variety of Insititia a
Damson, and a sweet one a Bullace; others make color the differentiating
character, calling the purple plums Damsons and the light colored ones
Bullaces; still others call oval Insititias Damsons and round ones
Bullaces. If a distinction is to be made, shape seems to be the character
upon which it should be based. The name Bullace applies to the round
shape of the fruit, but when first used or by whom given it is impossible
to say. It is commonly used in the old herbals and pomologies of both
England and Continental Europe, there being many variations of the name,
of which _bullis_ and _bulloes_ are most common with the word _bullum_ in
frequent use for the fruit of the Bullace tree. The varieties of Bullaces
are few in number, and are not largely grown, being known for most part
only in fruit collections, the Damsons serving all the purposes for which
the Bullaces would be worth growing, and to better advantage.

_The Mirabelles._—The Mirabelles are round, yellowish or golden,
freestone Insititias, ranging from half an inch to an inch in diameter,
very slightly sub-acid or sweet. The trees do not differ from the type
of the species unless it be in even greater productiveness than the
other groups of Insititia, all of which bear very abundant crops. The
fruits represent the highest quality to be found in the varieties of this
species, approaching the Reine Claudes of _Prunus domestica_ in richness
of flavor. Indeed, the Mirabelles may almost be said to be diminutive
Reine Claudes, resembling them not only in quality but in color and in
shape, and so closely as to lend color to Koch’s[72] supposition that
the Reine Claudes are hybrids between _Prunus domestica_ and _Prunus
insititia_.

In France the Mirabelles are accorded second if not first place among
plums, being superseded in popularity, if at all, only by the Reine
Claudes. They are used in the fresh state and as prunes, and are freely
made into conserves, preserves, jellies and jams, being found in the
markets in some of these forms the year round. They are much used for
pastry, their size being such that one layer of fruit suffices and is
none too deep for a good pie or tart. The fermented juice of these plums
is somewhat largely used in the making of a distilled liquor, a sort of
plum brandy. The dozen or more varieties of Mirabelles differ chiefly in
size of fruit and in time of maturity. The range in size is from half an
inch to an inch in diameter and in time of ripening in France from the
first of August to the first of October.

The Red Mirabelle frequently referred to in pomological works is _Prunus
cerasifera_, and the name is wrongly so used, for if not first applied
to the several varieties of Insititia it now by almost universal usage
belongs to these plums. The origin of the word, as now commonly used,
dates back over two centuries, being found in the pomological treatises
of the Seventeenth Century. The assumption is that Mirabelle is derived
from _mirable_ meaning wonderful, and the name was first so used by the
French.

Unfortunately the Mirabelles are hardly known in America. These plums
have so many good qualities of tree and fruit that American pomology
would be greatly enriched if the best Mirabelle varieties were grown in
both home and commercial orchards. They should be used in cookery much as
are the Damsons, which they surpass for some purposes.

_St. Juliens._—The St. Julien that the writer has seen in American and
European nurseries is unmistakably an Insititia. At one time St. Julien
stocks were used almost exclusively in New York nurseries, and few large
plum orchards are free from trees which have through accident to the cion
grown from the stock. Such trees bear fruit so like the Damson that one
is warranted in saying that the two are identical, and that St. Julien is
but a name used for a Damson when the latter is employed as a stock. The
fruit is sweetish with a taste identical with that of the sweet Damsons.

Plum-growers who have had experience with plums on several stocks are
almost united in the opinion that the St. Julien is the best of all for
the Domesticas, at least. St. Julien stocks were formerly imported in
great numbers from France, where it is still largely grown for European
use. The name seems to have come in use in France more than a century
ago, but why given or to what particular Insititia applied does not
appear. There is, however, a distinct variety or type of Insititia used
by the French in producing stocks, for French pomologists advise careful
selection of mother-plants for the production of the young trees by
suckers or layers, and caution growers of stocks in no case to use seeds
which bring twiggy, spiny and crooked stocks.[73] St. Julien plums are
seemingly nowhere grown at present for their fruits.

There are several ornamental forms of plums which are given specific
names by European horticulturists, mentioned in the last paragraph in the
discussion of the Domestica plums, which some writers place, in part at
least, with the Insititias. These plums are not found in America and it
is impossible to place them with certainty in either of the two species
upon the contradictory evidence of the Europeans.


=3.= =PRUNUS SPINOSA= Linnaeus.

    =1.= Linnaeus _Sp. Pl._ 475. 1753. =2.= Hudson _Fl. Anglic._
    186. 1778. =3.= Ehrhart _Beitr. Nat._ =4=:16. 1789. =4.= Pursh
    _Fl. Am. Sept._ =1=:333. 1814. =5.= Hooker _Fl. Bor. Am._
    =1=:167. 1833. =6.= Torrey and Gray _Fl. N. Am._ =1=:408. 1840.
    =7.= Koch, K. _Dend._ =1=:98. 1869. =8.= Ibid. _Deut. Obst._
    143. 1876. 9. DeCandolle _Or. Cult._ Pl. 212. 1885. 10. Schwarz
    _Forst. Bot._ 339. 1892. 11. Koch, W. _Syn. Deut. und Schw.
    Fl._ =1=:726. 1892. =12.= Dippel _Handb. Laubh._ =3=:637. 1893.
    =13.= Koehne _Deut. Dend._ 316. 1893. =14.= Beck von Managetta
    _Nied. Oester._ 818. 1893. =15.= Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1447
    fig. 1901. =16.= Schneider _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:628. 1906.

    Plant low, spreading, much-branched, thorny, shrubby, seldom
    attaining the dimensions of a small tree; branchlets distinctly
    pubescent; leaves small, ovate or oblong-ovate, sometimes
    obovate, numerous, nearly glabrous at maturity, obtuse at the
    apex, cuneate or rounded at the base, margins closely and
    finely serrate.

    Flowers white, one-third or one-half inch in diameter,
    expanding before the leaves; borne singly, in pairs or
    sometimes in threes, in lateral clusters.

    Fruit globose, usually less than one-half inch in diameter,
    dark blue, almost black, with a heavy bloom; flesh juicy, firm,
    with an acid, austere taste, scarcely edible for a dessert
    fruit but making a very good conserve; stone turgid or but
    little flattened, acute on one edge.

European botanists commonly break the species into a number of
sub-species, as:—_Prunus spinosa typica_ Schneider,[74] flower-pedicels
and calyx-cup glabrous; _Prunus spinosa praecox_ Wim. and Grab.,[75]
pedicels short, blossoms appearing before the leaves; _Prunus spinosa
sessiliflora_ Beck,[76] with sessile flowers, possibly the same as the
next preceding form; _Prunus spinosa coatanea_ Wim. and Grab.[77],
blossoming with the leaves and with long pedicels; and _Prunus spinosa
dasyphylla_ Schur.[78], flower-pedicel and calyx-cup more or less hairy.
Besides these botanical sub-divisions there are several horticultural
forms as follows:

_Prunus spinosa flore-pleno_ of the nurserymen is a double-flowered form,
making a beautiful little shrub or small tree much planted in gardens in
Europe and somewhat in America. Its blossoms are pure white, about half
an inch in diameter and not quite double, as the stamens form an orange
cluster in the center of the flower. The flowers are thickly crowded on
short spiny branches, the dark color of which forms a striking contrast
to the white flower. _Prunus spinosa purpurea_ is another horticultural
group, more vigorous than the species, less thorny and with larger
foliage. Its branches are erect, purplish in color, striated. The leaves
and petioles are at first very pubescent but at maturity glabrous; the
upper surface of the leaf is green marked with red, the under a deep
reddish-violet. The flowers are a pale rose. One or two variegated forms
of this species are also offered by nurserymen.

Schneider holds[79] _Prunus fruticans_ Weihe[80] and _Prunus spinosa
macrocarpa_ Wallroth[81] to be crosses between _Prunus spinosa_ and
_Prunus insititia_.

_Prunus spinosa_, the Blackthorn or European Sloe, is the common wild
plum of temperate Europe and the adjoining parts of Asia. It is adventive
from Europe to America and is now quite naturalized along roadsides and
about fields in many places in eastern United States. _Prunus spinosa_
is considered by some authors the remote ancestor of the Domestica and
Insititia plums, but as brought out in the discussion of the last named
species, such parentage is very doubtful.

The Spinosa plum is a common and often pestiferous plant in its habitat,
the roots forming such a mass that in general it is impossible for any
other vegetation to grow in its vicinity. The plant is small, spreading
and much branched and bristles with sharp thorns. The leaves are smaller
than those of any of the other Old World species, ovate in shape and very
finely serrate. The flowers are usually single but sometimes in pairs or
threes and are borne in such number as to make a dazzling mass of white;
comparatively few of these, however, set fruit. The fruit is round and
small, usually less than half an inch in diameter, and, typically, so
black as to have given rise to the old saying, “as black as a sloe.” The
fruits are firm but rather juicy, with an acid, austere flavor, which
makes them unfit for eating out of hand until frost-bitten, when the
austereness is somewhat mitigated. The stone is much swollen, with one
edge acute.

European nurserymen now and then offer trees of the Spinosa plum for
fruit-growing, sometimes with the statement that the fruit is sweet. But
pomologists do not speak highly of these cultivated Spinosas and hold
that they are hardly worth cultivation. The wild plums are quite commonly
picked for certain markets in Europe, however, especially those in which
the Domesticas and Insititias are not common. With plenty of sugar the
fruits make a very good conserve. In France the unripe fruit is pickled
as a substitute for olives and the juice of the ripe fruit is sometimes
used to make or adulterate cheap grades of port wine. In the country
districts of Germany and Russia the fruit is crushed and fermented and
spirit distilled from it.

The species is quite variable within limits, but since the wild fruits
have been used from the time of the lake-dwellers of central Europe,
without the appearance of desirable forms, the variations are not
likely to give horticultural varieties worth cultivating for table use.
The variations in the fruit are usually in color, the size and flavor
changing but little. Several ornamental forms are in cultivation, of
which the chief ones have been named.


=4.= =PRUNUS CURDICA= Fenzl and Fritsch.

    =1.= Fenzl and Fritsch _Sitzb. Akad. Wien._ Bd. CI. =1=:627.
    1892. =2.= Schneider _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:628. 1906.

The few herbarium specimens that the writer has seen of this species from
southeastern Europe strongly resemble _Prunus spinosa_ but Schneider in
the above reference describing it from living specimens says that it
differs from the species last named as follows: “Lower growth, about
one-half as high, spreading squarrose ramification, much less thorniness;
leaves more like _domestica_, when young hairy on both sides, later
above nearly and underneath more or less glabrous; petiole shorter, not
exceeding one cm.; blooms later, nearly with the leaves, white, about
twenty-two mm. in diameter, borne almost always single in this species;
pedicel finely pilose, in _Prunus spinosa_ almost glabrous; stamens
fewer, about twenty; fruit blue black, stem longer, exceeding twelve mm.”

So far as appears from the few and scant European references to the
species it has no horticultural value.


=5.= =PRUNUS COCOMILIA= Tenore.

    =1.= Tenore _Fl. Neap. Prodr._ Suppl. =2=:68. 1811. =2.=
    Schneider _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:628. 1906.

    Tree shrub-like, top thick, broadly ovate; branches
    drooping, shoots short; branchlets glabrous, young wood
    olive or reddish-brown. Buds small, roundish-ovate; leaves
    roundish-obovate, sharply and distinctly serrated, glabrous
    or upon the ribs on the under side sparsely pubescent.
    Flowers usually in pairs, opening before or with the leaves,
    greenish-white, pedicels about the length of the calyx-cups.
    Fruit yellow, agreeable.

The writer has seen only herbarium specimens of this plant and has taken
the description given from European texts. According to Schneider the
species has been divided into two varieties by the Italian botanists.
_Prunus cocomilia typica_ having oblong-ovate fruit and _Prunus
cocomilia brutia_ having round fruit. Schneider holds also that _Prunus
pseudoarmeniaca_ Heldr. and Sart.[82] from Epirus and Thessaly is a
variety of _Prunus cocomilia_ differing chiefly in having more pointed
leaves and smaller oblong-roundish red plums. The same author puts in
this species still another plum, a hairy-leaved form from Thessaly which
he calls _Prunus cocomilia puberula_. He places here also _Prunus ursina_
Kotschy[83] which differs only in minor respects from the species,
chiefly in having violet-red fruit though Boissier[84] mentions a
yellow-fruited plum which he calls _Prunus ursina flava_. The last named
plums come from Lebanon and North Syria.


=6.= =PRUNUS CERASIFERA= Ehrhart[85]

[Illustration: _PRUNUS CERASIFERA_]

    =1.= Ehrhart _Beitr. Nat._ =4=:17. 1789. =2.= Hooker _Brit.
    Fl._ 220. 1830. =3.= Koch, K. _Dend._ =1=:97. 1869. =4.= Koch,
    W. _Syn. Deut. und Schw. Fl._ =1=:727. 1892. =5.= Bailey
    Cornell Sta. Bul. =38=:66. 1892. =6.= Schneider _Handb. Laubh._
    =1=:632. 1892. =7.= Schwarz _Forst. Bot._ 339. 1892. =8.=
    Dippel _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:633. 1893.

    _P. domestica myrobalan._ =9.= Linnaeus _Sp. Pl._ 475. 1753.
    =10.= Seringe _DC. Prodr._ =2=:538. 1825.

    _P. myrobalan._ =11.= Loisleur _Nouv. Duham._ =5=:184. 1812.
    =12.= Koehne _Deut. Dend._ 316. 1893.

    Tree small or a tree-like shrub, seldom exceeding twenty-five
    feet in height; branches upright, slender, twiggy, unarmed or
    sometimes thorny; branchlets soon glabrous, becoming yellow or
    chestnut-brown; lenticels few, small, orange in color, raised.

    Winter-buds small, obtuse, short-pointed, pale reddish-brown;
    leaves small, short-ovate, apex acute, base cuneate or rounded,
    thin, membranaceous, texture firm, light green, nearly glabrous
    on both surfaces at maturity, though hairy along the rib on
    the lower surface, margins finely and closely serrate; petiole
    one-half or three-quarters of an inch long, slender, usually
    glabrous, glandless.

    Flowers large, three-quarters of an inch in diameter, expanding
    very early or mostly with the leaves; calyx-lobes lanceolate,
    glandular, reflexed; petals white, sometimes with a blush,
    ovate-oblong or orbicular, the base contracted into a claw;
    borne singly, sometimes in pairs, in cymes on long, slender,
    glabrous peduncles.

    Fruit small, one-half inch or a little more in diameter,
    globular or depressed-globular, cherry-like, red or yellow;
    skin thin and tender; flesh soft, juicy, sweet and rather
    pleasantly flavored; stone oval, short-pointed at both ends,
    somewhat turgid, ridged on one suture and grooved on the other.

_Prunus cerasifera_, the Cherry plum, first came to notice in pomological
literature as the Myrobalan plum, a name used as early as the last half
of the Sixteenth Century by Tabernæ-Montanus and given prominence in the
_Rariorum Plantarum Historum_, published by Clusius in 1601. Why applied
to this plum is not known. Myrobalan had long before been used, and is
still, as the name of several plum-like fruits of the East Indies, not
of the genus Prunus, which are used in tanning, dyeing, ink-making and
embalming. Until Ehrhart gave it the name _Prunus cerasifera_ in 1789 it
was known as the Myrobalan plum by botanists, some of whom, and nearly
all horticulturists, have continued the use of the name until the present
time.

Not a few of the botanists who have used Myrobalan for this plum have
called it a botanical variety of _Prunus domestica_. Among these were
Linnaeus and Seringe. Others, as Loisleur and Poiteau, have preferred the
name for the species as distinguished by Ehrhart.

Many of the early botanists, as Tournefort in 1700, Ehrhart in 1701,
Loudon in 1806 and Loisleur in 1812, gave the origin of the Cerasifera
plums as North America, but upon what authority does not appear. On the
other hand many European botanists, including Linnaeus, gave the habitat
as Europe or Asia. The supposition that this plum came from North America
hardly needs discussion. The plum flora of this continent has been well
enough studied so that it can be said that no plant that could by any
possibility be the Cerasifera plum grows on this side of the Atlantic.
Neither does it seem logical to consider this an off-shoot of _Prunus
domestica_, for fruit and tree-characters are distinctly different, and
for a member of the genus Prunus are remarkably constant. Moreover, there
is abundant evidence to show that this is a distinct species and that its
nativity is in the Turkish and nearby countries in Europe and Asia and
that there it has been in cultivation for a long time.

It is very significant that in the old herbals and botanies a frequent
name of this fruit is “the Turkish plum.” But more specific and almost
conclusive proof is that two forms of plums belonging to this species are
known to come from the Caucasus region. _Prunus divaricata_[86] is now
considered by some botanists to be a synonym of _Prunus cerasifera_ and
by others to be a botanical variety of the last named species. Ledebour,
who named it, found it in the Trans-Caucasian region. It differs from the
type only in having much divided, wide-spreading and nearly prostrate
branches. The Pissardi plum, a purple-leaved form of this species,
originated in Persia. A plum now growing in the Arnold Arboretum raised
from seed from Turkestan, presumably from wild stock, is identical with
plants of Cerasifera of European origin. And, according to Schneider,[87]
this plum is known in the wild state in Caucasus, Trans-Caucasus,
northern Persia and Turkestan.

The Cerasifera plums are small trees, usually upright but in some forms
with spreading branches which are commonly unarmed, glabrous and brownish
in color. The leaves are ovate and smaller and thinner and with more
finely serrate margin than those of the Domestica plums. It blooms
prolifically and bears large, white, single or paired flowers, making
a most beautiful tree when in flower. The fruit is small, round, and
cherry-like, from half an inch to an inch in diameter, usually red but
sometimes yellow. The flesh is soft, sweetish or sub-acid and poor. The
stone is turgid, smooth and pointed. The species is variable in nearly
all tree-characters, and were it not surpassed by other plums for its
fruit there would undoubtedly be a great number of varieties cultivated
for the markets. There are, however, but few cultivated Cerasiferas, only
nineteen being described in _The Plums of New York_. It is very generally
distributed wherever plums are grown, because of the use to which it has
been put as stocks for other species. For this purpose it is held in
high esteem the world over. In the nurseries of New York it is now used
more than any other stock and it is common to find it fruiting here and
there from plants set for or used as stocks. In fact practically all
the cultivated varieties have arisen as survivals of plants meant for
stocks. It is almost certain that the Cerasifera, or Myrobalan, as it is
universally known by horticulturists, dwarfs the cion and that it is not
equally well suited to all varieties; but it does not “sprout” as badly
as some other stocks, is adapted to many soils, and the young trees grow
well and are rapidly budded, giving at the start a strong and vigorous
orchard tree.

The Cerasifera plums are handsome trees. The foliage is a fresh and
beautiful green and whether covered with a mass of flowers or loaded with
red or yellow fruit these plums are as handsome as any of our cultivated
fruit trees, and as desirable for ornamentals.

The hardiness, thriftiness, freedom from disease and adaptability to
soils make the species desirable for hybridizing. A number of breeders of
plums have made use of it with some indications of a promising future,
several interesting hybrid offspring of this species being described in
_The Plums of New York_.

The small number of varieties of Cerasifera cultivated for their
fruit indicates that but little can be expected from this species by
plum-growers, since so little has come from it in the shape of edible
fruits, though it has been under general cultivation for over three
hundred years, at least, as an ornamental and as a stock. Several
valuable groups of ornamentals have arisen from Cerasifera, of which the
following are most notable:—

In 1880 M. Pissard, gardener to the Shah of Persia, sent to France a
purple-leaved plum which proved to be a form of _Prunus cerasifera_. To
this plum Dippel[88] gave the name _Prunus cerasifera atropurpurea_,
while horticulturists very generally call it _Prunus pissardi_. A
close study of the purple-leaved plum reveals no character in which it
differs from the species except in the color of foliage, flowers and
fruit; the leaves are purple, as are also the calyx and peduncles of the
flowers, while the fruit is a dark wine-red. These are but horticultural
characters and do not seem to be of sufficient importance to establish
for this plant a botanical variety. This view is strengthened by the
fact that Jack[89] reports that seeds from the purple-leaved plum have
produced plants which agree in all essential particulars with the
species; while Kerr[90] has grown a purple-leaved plum from a variety of
_Prunus cerasifera_.

Besides this well-known purple-leaved plum nurserymen offer _Prunus
pendula_, a weeping form; _Prunus planteriensis_, bearing double white
and red flowers; _Prunus acutifolia_, a plum with narrow, willow-like
leaves; _Prunus contorta_, characterized by twisted, contorted foliage;
_Prunus elegans_, _Prunus gigantea_, and a variety with yellow and
another with variegated leaves, etc. All of these are probably
horticultural varieties of _Prunus cerasifera_ though some of them cannot
be classified with surety.

Schneider[91] calls _Prunus dasycarpa_ Ehrhart,[92] the _Prunus armeniaca
dasycarpa_ of Borkhausen,[93] a cross between _Prunus cerasifera_ and
_Prunus armeniaca_, one of the apricots.


=7.= =PRUNUS MONTICOLA= K. Koch

    =1.= Koch, K. _Ind. Sem. Hort. Berol._ App. 1854. =2.=
    Schneider _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:632. 1906.

    Plant shrub-like, slender, upright, scarcely thorny, new wood
    more or less olive-brown. Buds short, ovate; leaves roundish or
    cuneiform, base oblong-ovate, point drawn out, main nerves over
    six on both sides, the serrations coarse and uniform in size,
    always glabrous. Flowers mostly in twos; borne on long, slender
    peduncles; calyx usually glabrous; petals white, odor slight;
    stamens thirty or more. Fruit small, roundish-oblong, red;
    stone ovoid, pointed at one end, somewhat turgid.

_Prunus monticola_ is described by the above authors as a shrub-like
plum from Asia Minor and Armenia having, so far as can be learned from
European texts, little or no horticultural value. The herbarium specimens
seen by the writer indicate that this species is closely related to
_Prunus cerasifera_. The description of the species is abbreviated from
Schneider.


=8.= =PRUNUS TRIFLORA= Roxburgh

[Illustration: _PRUNUS TRIFLORA_]

    =1.= Roxburgh _Hort. Bengal_ 38. 1814. =2.= Ibid. _Fl. Indica_
    =2=:501. 1824. =3.= Schneider _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:627. 1892.
    =4.= Bailey _Cornell Sta. Bul._ 62. 1894. =5.= Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 42. 1901.

    _P. domestica_. =6.= Maximowicz _Mel. Biol._ =11=:678. 1883.

    _P. hattan_ Tamari. =7.= Bailey _An. Hort._ 30. 1889.

    _P. communis._ =8.= Forbes and Hemsley _Jour. Linn. Soc._
    =23=:219. 1886-88.

    _P. japonica_ of horticulturists (not _P. japonica_ of
    Thunberg).

    Tree twenty to thirty feet in height, vigorous; trunk six
    to twelve inches in diameter, straight; bark thick, rough,
    numerous corky elevations especially on the branches,
    reddish or cinnamon-brown, peach-like; branches long,
    upright-spreading, much forked, brash and often splitting at
    the forks; branchlets thick, straight, glaucous and glabrous,
    at first light red, growing darker the second year; lenticels
    few or many, usually small but conspicuous, light in color.

    Winter-buds small and obtuse, free or appressed; leaves borne
    abundantly, small or of but medium size, oblong-obovate, point
    acuminate or abrupt, prominent, base rounded, firm, thin,
    membranaceous, margins finely and closely serrated, sometimes
    in two series, teeth usually glandular; upper surface bright
    green, glabrous, lower surface dull, whitish, glabrous or
    slightly pubescent on the veins; veins pronounced; petioles
    one-half inch in length, stoutish, tinged with red; glands few
    or several, usually globose, greenish; stipules lanceolate,
    very narrow, one-half inch long, caducous.

    Flowers expanding early, before, with or sometimes after the
    leaves, first of the plum blossoms to appear, very abundant,
    three-quarters of an inch in diameter; usually three springing
    from each flower-bud, often in dense clusters on lateral spurs
    and lateral buds on one-year-old wood; calyx-tube green,
    glabrous, campanulate or obconic; calyx-lobes acute to obtuse
    glandular-serrate, erect, glabrous or pubescent; petals white,
    oval, entire or crenate, with a short claw or tip; stamens
    about twenty-five, shorter than the petals; anthers yellow,
    sometimes tinged with red; pistils glabrous, longer than the
    stamens; pedicels one-half inch long, slender.

    Fruit varying greatly in season, from very early to late;
    large, from one to two inches in diameter, globular,
    heart-shaped or often somewhat conical; cavity deep; apex
    conspicuously pointed; suture usually prominent; color varies
    greatly but usually a bright red or yellow, never blue or
    purple, lustrous, with little or no bloom; dots small,
    numerous, usually conspicuous; skin thin, tough, astringent;
    stem one-half inch in length; flesh red or more often yellow,
    firm, fibrous, juicy; quality variable, of distinct flavor,
    usually good; stone clinging tenaciously or nearly free, small,
    rough or lightly pitted, oval to ovate, one edge grooved, the
    other ridged.

A study of the botanical characters of the many Triflora plums under
cultivation fails to show any lines of cleavage whereby the species can
be divided. Of plums commonly grown in America it is not very closely
related to any unless it be _Prunus simonii_. There are several plums
from eastern and central Asia with which we are not at all familiar in
America that may show relationship with _Prunus triflora_, chief of which
are _Prunus ichangana_ Schneider,[94] _Prunus thibetica_ Franchet[95] and
_Prunus bokhariensis_ Royle,[96] the last a cultivated plum from northern
India. These, in herbarium specimens, have some characters reminding one
of _Prunus triflora_, others of _Prunus domestica_ and still others, of
_Prunus cerasifera_.

The Triflora, or Japanese,[97] plums are now cultivated in all parts of
the world where plums are grown; yet outside of Japan and China they
have been grown for their fruit less than half a century. Despite the
fact that these plums have been grown in Asia for several centuries the
wild form is not known. Indeed, there are doubts in the minds of some as
to whether it constitutes a distinct species, Maximowicz, an authority
on the flora of Japan, among others, holding that it is but a form of
_Prunus domestica_. Roxburgh in naming it gave but little definite
information in regard to the species, but the herbarium specimens of
his in the Kew Herbarium are readily identified as identical with our
Japanese plums.[98] The confusion between _Prunus triflora_ and _Prunus
domestica_ seems needless, as the points of difference between these two
species are several and very distinct and constant, the resemblances
between _Prunus triflora_ and some of the American species being much
closer. So, too, the effort, sometimes made, to make more than one
species out of _Prunus triflora_ is straining a point, for though the
types under cultivation vary considerably yet the variations are not
greater than between varieties of other species of the genus Prunus.

_Prunus triflora_ is almost certainly a native of China. According to
Georgeson and Sargent, who have made extensive botanical explorations in
the forests of Japan, there are no indigenous plum trees in that country.
Dr. K. Miyake, botanist at the Agricultural College of the Imperial
University, Tokyo, Japan, writes to this Station,[99] that _Prunus
triflora_ does not grow wild in Japan but was introduced there from China
from two to four hundred years ago. Bretschneider[100] in his treatise
on _The Study and Value of Chinese Botanical Works_ says that the plum
has been cultivated from ancient times in China and this indicates that
the original habitat was in that country. Mr. F. N. Meyer, Agricultural
Explorer for the United States Department of Agriculture, who has made
extensive agricultural explorations in China, writes[101] that he has
seen many trees of _Prunus triflora_ cultivated in the Chekiang Province
and also about Canton but that he had not found the species growing wild.
Roxburgh says[102] that the shrub had been “received from China into
our gardens in Bengal.” Forbes and Hemsley[103] state that varieties of
this plum are cultivated in China and that it occurs in the wild state
in the mountains near Peking as well as on the Tsunglin range in Shensi
and Kansu. These writers are, however, uncertain as to where it is truly
indigenous.

While the above and practically all evidence points to China as the
original home of _Prunus triflora_ it is likely that the habitat of the
species cannot be accurately determined until western and southwestern
China have been explored by botanists, these regions as yet being almost
unknown to foreign scientists.

Notwithstanding the illustrious work of Kaempfer, Thunberg, Siebold and
Fortune in sending to Europe the choicest plants of Japan and China,
_Prunus triflora_ seems to have reached the Old World through America
at a very recent date. At least the species was not cultivated for its
fruit in Europe until introduced from the United States as Japanese
plums, and even yet they are but barely known in European orchards.
The species was introduced into this country from Japan about 1870 by a
Mr. Hough of Vacaville, California. According to Bailey,[104] who has
given much attention to these plums, Mr. Hough obtained his trees from
a Mr. Bridges, United States Consul to Japan. John Kelsey, Berkeley,
California, produced the first ripe fruit of the Triflora plums in
America in 1876 and 1877, and impressed by their value began recommending
them. Owing to Mr. Kelsey’s efforts the propagation of these plums was
begun on a large scale about 1883 by W. P. Hammon & Co., of Oakland,
who commemorated Mr. Kelsey’s labors by naming the plum after him.
The success of the Kelsey started the importation and origination of
varieties and a veritable boom in Japanese plums was soon under way.

This fruit is a most valuable addition to our pomology, no less than
ninety-two varieties now being under cultivation in America. At first it
was thought desirable only for the southern states, but it proved to be
nearly as hardy as the Domestica plums in the northern states and was
soon widely distributed north and south. Beyond question it has suffered
from over-praise, which has led to over-planting. As was of necessity the
case, many untested and worthless varieties were offered fruit-growers,
and these, with the failure of some of the extravagant claims for the
really meritorious varieties, have given the Triflora plums a bad
reputation with many fruit-growers. Now we have cultivated plums of this
species for forty years and there has been time for the excitement of
their discovery and the consequent reaction to abate making it possible
to arrive more nearly at their true place in pomology.

The plums of this species possess several striking features that commend
them to fruit-growers. Undoubtedly the most valuable attribute of the
Triflora plums as cultivated fruits is their wide range of adaptability.
All must admit that this group of varieties is less valuable than the
Domestica varieties where both succeed, but the Triflora plums are
adapted to a much wider range of country and of conditions than the
Domesticas. But even where both types of plums succeed the newer plum
introduces several very desirable features quite aside from additional
variety which the many distinct sorts furnish. Thus, as a species, the
Trifloras are more vigorous, productive, earlier in coming in bearing
and more free from diseases, especially black-knot and leaf-blight, than
the Domestica plums. The Trifloras are also less subject to curculio
than most of the native and European species. They keep longer and ship
as well as the better known Europeans. As compared with native varieties
the plums from Japan are larger, handsomer and better flavored and keep
and ship better. Some disadvantages are that they blossom so early as to
be often caught by spring frosts; they are quite subject to brown-rot;
for most part they are tenacious clingstones; the species, all in all, is
less hardy to cold than the Domestica plums; lastly, they are inferior
in quality to the varieties from Europe. The last fault is so serious
that, though the average for the Triflora plums is high, making them
unquestionably more desirable inhabitants of the orchard than any of the
native species, they cannot compete with the Domesticas where the two
types can be equally well grown.

The botanical differences between these Asiatic plums and those from
Europe and America are most interesting. In 1859 Asa Gray called
attention to the striking resemblances between the east coast floras of
Asia and America. The Triflora plum is one of the plants which furnishes
substantial evidence of this similarity and of the dissimilarity of the
east and west coast floras of the two hemispheres. In general aspect
the trees of the Triflora plums in summer or winter are much more like
those of the American species than like those from Europe or West Asia;
so, too, the fruits are more alike in appearance and in quality, and the
peach-like foliage of the Trifloras might easily be mistaken for that
of some of our varieties of Hortulana or Munsoniana. In the manner in
which the buds are borne and in vernation the resemblance of the Oriental
species to the Americanas, Hortulanas and Munsonianas is again most
striking. In Asiatic and American species the buds are borne in twos
and threes, while in the European species they are more often single or
double.

The importance of this similarity of the Triflora plums to the most
common American species is seen when Gray’s reason for the likenesses
between the two floras is considered. This, briefly, is that similar
types of post-glacial plants should persist in areas having like
geographical positions and like climates; hence east-coast plants in one
hemisphere should be expected to be similar to those of the east coast
of the other hemisphere and the same with the west coast. Triflora plums
are near of kin to American plums, then, because they have been evolved
under similar conditions. This is a reason why these plums from Japan are
adapted to so wide a range of country in America, and why, too, they are
so free from the fungus troubles which attack European plums, but from
which American plums suffer but little.

As might be expected from their nearness of kin the Triflora plums
hybridize readily with the American species and especially with the
Hortulanas and Munsonianas, the species they most resemble. Unfortunately
an amalgamation of the Oriental plums with the Americanas is not so
easily accomplished and that with the Domesticas is still more difficult.
Hybrids with _Prunus simonii_ are easily made and the progeny as a rule
have much merit. Hybrids of the Trifloras with our native species give
most promising results, a number of them being described in _The Plums of
New York_. The fact that the Trifloras have been cultivated for several
centuries, at least, means in their hybridization with American species
that there is an amalgamation of domesticated characters with the similar
but wilder characters of our native species.

It has been very difficult to establish a satisfactory nomenclature for
the Triflora plums now grown in America. In spite of the excellent work
of Berckmans,[105] Bailey[106] and Waugh,[107] in bringing order out of
what was at one time utter confusion, there is still a great deal of
uncertainty as to the identification of some varieties. The confusion
began with the first extensive importation of these plums from Japan when
names which the Japanese applied to classes or groups or the localities
from which the plums came were made to apply in America to definite
varieties. Many of the names under which the plums were imported have
had to be dropped and the varieties boldly renamed. Another source of
confusion has been that these, of all plums, seem most variable under
changed conditions. Local environment in many instances in America
changes somewhat the habit and appearance of varieties, making it
difficult to decide whether two or more specimens of the same sort from
different localities are identical varieties or distinct. Curiously
enough, too, the trees of some varieties of plums seem to bear unlike
fruit in different years, especially in the matter of time of ripening;
that is, trees of some varieties do not always ripen their fruit in the
same sequence, being earlier than another variety one year and possibly
later the next. All fruits are more or less variable in this respect,
but the Triflora plums are remarkably so, a fact that has added to the
confusion in their nomenclature, since it adds to the difficulty of
identifying varieties.

The cultivated varieties of _Prunus triflora_ are also very diverse as
regards tree-characters, especially as to vigor, hardiness and time of
maturity of the fruit. The differences seem to be horticultural or those
that come from cultivation, rather than botanical. Indeed, it seems
impossible to place the numerous varieties in horticultural groups that
are marked with any great degree of definiteness. A distinction of groups
based on color is sometimes made, but the one character is insufficient
to have classificatory value. In Japan, according to Georgeson, a
division of the species is made with shape as the line of division. He
says[108] “The round plums are designated by the term botankio, while
those of an oval or pointed shape are called hattankio.” The varieties
are sometimes loosely grouped into yellow and red-fleshed sorts. A
serviceable classification would have to be founded on several or a
considerable number of characters. Such a classification at present is
impossible.


=9.= =PRUNUS SIMONII= Carrière

    =1.= Carrière _Rev. Hort._ 111. 1872.[109]

    Tree small, of medium vigor, upright, dense, hardy except in
    exposed locations, unproductive; branches stocky, long, rough,
    thickly strewn with small lenticels; branchlets slender, long,
    with internodes of medium length, reddish, glabrous; leaf-buds
    intermediate in size, short, obtuse, free.

    Leaves folded upward, oblong-lanceolate to obovate, peach-like,
    narrow, long, of medium thickness; upper surface dark green,
    smooth, shining, lower surface pale green, not pubescent, with
    prominent midrib; margin slightly crenate; petiole short,
    thick, faintly tinged red, often with four large globose glands
    on the stalk.

    Flower-buds numerous on one-year wood although found on spurs
    on the older wood; flowers appearing very early, semi-hardy,
    small, pinkish-white; borne singly or in pairs, often defective
    in pollen.

    Fruit maturing early; one and three-quarters by two and
    one-quarter inches in size, strongly oblate, compressed;
    cavity deep, wide, flaring, regular, often slightly russeted;
    suture variable in depth, frequently swollen near the apex
    which is flattened or strongly depressed; dark red or
    purplish-red, overspread with waxy bloom; dots numerous,
    small, dark colored, with russet center, inconspicuous; stem
    thick, characteristically short being often one-quarter inch
    long; skin of medium thickness, tough, bitter, adhering to the
    pulp; flesh rich yellow, medium juicy, tough, firm, very mild
    sub-acid with a peculiar aromatic flavor; of fair quality;
    stone clinging, about seven-eighths inch in diameter, roundish,
    flattened to rather turgid, truncate at the base, tapering
    abruptly to a short point at the apex, with characteristic
    rough surfaces; ventral suture narrow, acute or with distinct
    wing; dorsal suture very blunt or acute, not grooved.

All that is known of the history and habitat of this species is that it
came from China in 1867 having been sent to the Paris Museum of Natural
History by Eugene Simon, a French consul in China. The spontaneous form
has not as yet been found. The general aspect of the tree is more that
of the peach than the plum and the drupes are as much like apricots or
nectarines as plums but when all characters are considered the fruit can
better be classed with the plums than with any of the other stone-fruits
named.

_Prunus simonii_ has been widely grown in America both for its fruits
and as an ornamental, but it cannot be said that it has become popular
for either purpose and only one variety of the species is now under
cultivation. As a food product the plums lack palatability and as
ornamentals the trees are subject to too many pests. _Prunus simonii_
has been successfully hybridized with _Prunus triflora_ and as secondary
crosses its blood has been mingled with that of some of the native
species as well. Most of its hybrid offspring have more value than the
parent, nearly all of them lacking its disagreeable taste. According to
an article published in _Revue Horticole_[110] a new form of the _Prunus
simonii_ was produced in 1890 from a bud sport, the fruit of which is
elongated, a little cordate, slightly unequal, and grooved on one side.
So far as can be learned this sport has no very decided merits as a
horticultural plant.


=10.= =PRUNUS AMERICANA= Marshall

[Illustration: _PRUNUS AMERICANA_]

    =1.= Marshall _Arb. Am._ 111. 1785. =2.= Eaton and Wright _N.
    Am. Bot._ 377. 1840. =3.= Torrey and Gray _Fl. N. Am._ =1=:407.
    1840 (in part). =4.= Torrey _Fl. N. Y._ =1=:194. 1843 (in
    part). =5.= Emerson _Trees of Mass._ 449. 1846. =6.= Nuttall
    _Silva_ =2=:19. 1846. =7.= Darlington _Fl. Cest._ Ed. =3=:72.
    1853. =8.= Torrey _Pac. R. Rpt._ =4=:82. 1854. =9.= Curtis
    _Rpt. Geol. Surv. N. C._ 56. 1860. =10.= Ridgway _Proc. U. S.
    Nat. Mus._ 65. 1882. =11.= Sargent _10th Cen. U. S._ =9=:65.
    1883 (in part). =12.= Watson and Coulter _Gray’s Man._ Ed.
    =6=:151. 1889 (in part). =13.= Coulter _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._
    =2=:102. 1891. =14.= Sargent _Silva N. Am._ =4=:19, Pl. 150.
    1892. =15.= Rydberg _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._ =3=:156. 1895.
    =16.= _Ibid._ =3=:494. 1896. =17.= Waugh _Vt. Sta. Bul._
    =53=:59. 1896. =18.= Ibid. _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =10=:100.
    1896-7. =19.= Chapman _Fl. Sou. U. S._ 130. 1897. =20.= Bailey
    _Ev. Nat. Fr._ 182, fig. 1898. =21.= Waugh _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =12=:231. 1899. =22.= Mohr _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._ =6=:551.
    1901. =23.= Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1448 fig. 1901. =24.=
    Rydberg _Fl. of Colo._ 193. 1906.

    Tree attaining a height of thirty feet, slow but strong in
    growth, often shrubby; trunk thick, sometimes a foot in
    diameter, short, bearing the head at three to five feet; bark
    one-half inch thick, dark grayish-brown, outer surface rough,
    shaggy with large scales, with age becoming smoother, giving
    a characteristic aspect; branches spreading, crooked, long,
    rigid, but often pendulous at the extremities, more or less
    thorny, with lateral, spinescent branchlets; branchlets light
    green, usually glabrous, sometimes much or little tomentose,
    at first becoming brownish and later tinged with red; lenticels
    numerous, large and distinct.

    Winter-buds medium in size, short, acute, appressed,
    reddish-brown; leaves large, obovate, oblong-obovate, or oval,
    acuminate at the apex and usually rounded at the base, thin and
    firm in texture, becoming somewhat coriaceous; margins sharply
    serrate, almost incised, often doubly serrate, the coarse and
    double serrations characteristic; teeth not glandular; upper
    surface more or less roughened, light green, the lower one
    glabrous or slightly hairy, sometimes pubescent, coarsely
    veined, the midrib grooved on the upper side; petioles slender,
    two-thirds inch in length, usually glandless; stipules long,
    sometimes three-lobed, falling early.

    Flowers expanding after the leaves, large, an inch in diameter,
    borne in lateral umbels, two to five-flowered, mostly on
    one-year-old wood; pedicels one-half inch long, slender,
    usually glabrous; calyx-tube obconic, entire, glandular,
    reddish on the outer, green on the inner surface, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes acuminate, glabrous on the outer and pubescent
    on the inner surface, reflexed; petals white, sometimes with
    bright red at the base, rounded and often lanciniate at the
    apex, contracted into a long, narrow claw at the base; stamens
    about thirty in number, as long as the petals; anthers small,
    yellow; pistils glabrous, slender, as long as the stamens;
    stigma thick and truncate; anthers and pistils often defective;
    when in full flower emitting a disagreeable odor.

    Fruit very variable in ripening period; globose, sub-globose,
    conical, oval, or sometimes oblique-truncate, usually more
    than an inch in diameter, red or rarely yellowish, mostly
    dull, with or without bloom; dots pale, numerous, more or less
    conspicuous; cavity shallow or almost lacking; suture a line;
    skin thick, tough, usually astringent; flesh golden-yellow,
    juicy, meaty, fibrous, sweetish, acid and poor but often good
    to very good; stone clinging or free, turgid or flattened, the
    apex pointed, ridged on the ventral and slightly grooved on the
    dorsal suture, surfaces smooth.

As _Prunus americana_ is more carefully studied throughout the great
territory it inhabits, undoubtedly one or more sub-species will be
described. The plums of this species in the Mississippi Valley are
distinguished from the eastern and typical form by fruits having a length
greater than the diameter, by a somewhat different aspect of tree and by
flatter seeds which are usually conspicuously longer than broad. All of
the cultivated varieties come from the western form. The plant of _Prunus
americana_ in the dry plain regions in Kansas and Nebraska becomes
shrubby in character while on the alluvial bottom lands along the streams
in this region it retains the character of a tree. In the southern limit
of its range, the leaves of this species are more or less pubescent on
the lower surface. As the species occurs throughout western New Mexico,
Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Montana and Manitoba, it differs enough,
possibly, from the eastern types to be considered a sub-species, having
a wholly different aspect of tree, silvery and somewhat scurfy twigs,
smaller, thinner and lighter colored leaves and smaller fruits with more
roundish stones.

_Prunus americana_ is the predominating native plum. It is the most
widely distributed, is most abundant in individual specimens and has
yielded the largest number of horticultural varieties of any of the
native species. Because of its prominence and comparatively high degree
of permanency of characters it may well be considered the type from
which has sprung not only its botanical varieties but several other of
the American species. Its variability, too, is shown in its many diverse
horticultural varieties, and of its adaptability it may be said that
it flourishes on nearly all soils and exposures, and is found wild or
cultivated from Maine to Florida and northward from Mexico along the
eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains well into Canada. The species was
well named by Marshall “Americana.”

This plum has not played nearly as important a part in the pomology of
America as its merits would warrant. It seems to have made an impression
almost from the first upon the Europeans who settled America, for it is
mentioned in nearly all the early records of the food products of the
newly found land, yet its cultivation can hardly be said to have begun
until the last half of the Nineteenth Century. But the early descriptions
of this and other native plums by the colonial explorers, naturalists
and botanists, show but little interest in these fruits as subjects for
cultivation, and seem to contain almost no prophecies as to the possible
development of a new orchard plant from them. It is probable that the
Damsons, which were early introduced in America, and the Domesticas,
which came at least before the Revolution, proved so adaptable to the
part of the New World in which the colonies were planted that this, even
though the best of the wild plums, offered small reward in comparison.

It is certain, however, that from the very first, Americana plums were
much used by the early settlers as wild fruits, for the histories of all
the colonies and states in which plums are found contain innumerable
references to wild plums, usually with some expression showing that they
were considered makeshifts until the European plums could be grown. Long
before white men came to America the possessors of the continent knew
and esteemed these fruits of the woods. According to some of the early
writers wild plums of this species, since found where the Americanas are
dominant, were planted and rudely cultivated by the natives.[111] It is
likely, however, that these Indian orchards were more often the result
of seeds dropped about camping places and towns rather than regularly
planted orchards. It is not improbable that the wide distribution of this
species in the Mississippi Valley and the country about and beyond the
Great Lakes is due somewhat to the hand of the Indian, of the voyageur
and of the missionary of the French regime.

The common names under which this plum passes in the states where it is
found as a wild fruit are indicative of the knowledge possessed of it
by the people. The Americana is nearly always the wild plum of eastern
America. It shares with several other species the names in various parts
of the country of Red Plum, Yellow Plum, the Horse and the Hog Plum. In
Iowa this is most often the “native plum;” in Indiana it is the Goose
plum; in Georgia, the August plum, while in the states bordering on the
Gulf it is often called the Sloe.

The domestication of Americana plums is due to the fact that the plums
of Europe will not thrive in the Mississippi Valley, the prairie states,
nor, for the most part, in the South. The European species are tender
both to cold and heat in these regions and they are attacked by those
scourges of plum culture, black-knot, leaf-blight and curculio. If,
then, the people in the West and South were to have plums at hand when
wanted, the wild species had to be brought under cultivation. Where the
two will grow side by side it is doubtful if any would choose to grow the
Americanas in preference to the Europeans or even for the sake of variety.

The Americana plum was introduced into European gardens at an early
date, for references to it are found in the pomological works of the
Eighteenth Century, Duhamel having described it in his great work on
pomology in 1768, under the name _Prunier de Virginie_, and later
Poiteau[112] gives a very good description of it under the name _Prune de
la Gallissioniere_. Just how much earlier than these dates it was taken
to the Old World cannot be said, but seeds of it are likely to have been
taken there by some of the returning explorers of early colonial times.
The important fact is that as a cultivated fruit it has made absolutely
no headway in competition in Europe with the plums of that continent
though it is to be found not infrequently as an ornamental.

The domestication of these plums began less than a century ago, not
through direct efforts in breeding them but as the result of the
selection of the best of the wild or chance trees found in many widely
separated localities. It would be most interesting to follow in
detail the introduction of variety after variety of this species into
cultivation, giving full credit to the men, many of them pioneers in
newly settled countries, through whose efforts the amelioration of the
species was begun. But space forbids, and the reader who desires to trace
more fully the history and the evolution of these plums must put together
the histories of the two or three hundred varieties of Americanas
described in the chapters on varieties.

Are the Americanas to compete with the Domesticas, Insititias and
Trifloras where all may be grown? It is very doubtful or at least not
soon. The Old World plums are so superior, speaking generally, in size,
appearance, and flavor, the qualities which appeal to those who eat
plums, that the native varieties stand small chance for popular favor.
Their place in pomology must long remain the region where the older and
more highly developed groups of plums cannot be grown. Though there are
now many times more of the Americana plums under cultivation than of the
recently introduced Trifloras, the latter are more popular and are likely
to remain so in localities where both can be grown.

The range of _Prunus americana_ is seemingly increasing, making it almost
impossible to give its present limits. The boundary line of its northern
range passes through central New York to central Michigan, southern
Wisconsin, Minnesota and South Dakota extending northwestward to Manitoba
and reaching its western limit in Utah. It occurs locally southward
through Colorado to northern New Mexico. It is rare in Oklahoma and
does not occur in Texas, but is represented in Missouri by a pubescent
form. East of the Mississippi River the typical species occurs in all
of the states from central New York southward to northern Florida. In
this great territory it is found in many diverse soils and exposures
but responding in all to good soil and congenial environment. In the
wild state the Americana plums are most often found along the borders of
streams and swamps or in bottom lands where moisture abounds. Sometimes
they are found in swamps which may be submerged a part of the year. In
spite of a predilection for moist lands, however, the wild plants are
not infrequently found on comparatively dry uplands, seeming to prefer
soils containing considerable lime. The wild trees are usually found in
thickets, often of considerable extent.

Under cultivation the range is even greater than for the wild plant. It
is only in localities of extreme heat and cold, humidity or aridness,
that some of the many Americanas cannot be made to grow under conditions
at all favorable for orchards of any of the temperate fruits. So, too,
varieties may be found for nearly all soils which permit of cultivation.
This freedom from local attachments is one of the chief assets of the
species.

The Americana tree is commonly small, often but a bush, and usually
with a thick, thorny top. Generally the head attains a height of about
fifteen or eighteen feet and sometimes it rises to twenty-five or thirty
feet, spreading into many rigid branches which are often pendulous at
the extremities. The species may almost always be told by the rough,
shaggy, grayish bark, the large, thin, persistent plates of which give
a very characteristic shagginess. In the spring the tree is covered
with umbelliferous masses of pure white flowers and both at this season
and later with its ample foliage or showy fruit, the plant is very
ornamental. The leaves are large, oval or obovate, thin, dull and veiny,
with very jagged margins.

The fruit is reddish or yellowish or a blending of the two with the red
varieties predominating. Often the color is more nearly orange than red
or yellow—in fact pure yellow fruits cannot be found. Wild or cultivated
the fruits of the Americana plums vary greatly in season, size, shape
and flavor. In the orchard the period of maturity covers a range of
several weeks, beginning in New York in August and ending in October; in
the wild, trees in the same thicket may vary as much as three weeks in
ripening their fruit. The size of the cultivated sorts is from that of
a Damson to that of some of the Gages, the shape being roundish-oval,
or quite oval, sometimes oblique and sometimes truncate at one or both
ends and often more or less compressed. The wild fruits usually have
a pleasant flavor and this is much improved under cultivation so that
when fully ripe the flesh of some sorts is sweet and luscious, hardly
surpassed, if the skin be rejected, by the best Domesticas. The skin
is usually thick, coriaceous, acerb or astringent, and altogether very
unpleasant, making with the tenaciously clinging stones the chief
defects of these fruits. In some varieties skin and stones are far less
objectionable than in others.

The trees of the varieties we have as yet are not very manageable in the
orchard. They make a very slow growth and are hard to control, producing
at maturity many leaning trunks which are often crooked, as are also the
branches which, with the unkempt heads, give an impression of waywardness
and wildness. Nearly all of the varieties over-bear and unless
thinned the fruits are so small as to be hardly worth harvesting; not
infrequently trees die from over-bearing. A few varieties are unfruitful
but usually because of defective pollination. Nearly all sucker badly
on their own roots, and except in cold regions should be grown on other
stocks. In general there are fewer pests to combat with these than with
the European plums but yet they are far from being exempt and require on
the grounds of this Station quite as much spraying as do other plums.

Waugh, who has given the subject much study, claims that the Americanas
are not very strong sexually,[113] chiefly because of defective
reproductive organs. He found in extensive examinations that 21.2 per ct.
of the pistils were defective, ranging from nothing in some varieties
to 100 per ct. in others. More seldom the anthers were defective
and the flowers were sometimes proterandrous (the pollen maturing
before the pistil is ready to receive it), and that they were rather
frequently proterogynous (the pistils receptive before the pollen is
mature). Waugh holds that in planting these plums, provision should be
made for cross-pollination, and recommends as sorts most suitable for
inter-planting for this purpose, other varieties of the same species.

Plant-breeders have not found that this species hybridizes as readily
as most of the other cultivated native plums. This is chiefly due to
a seeming lack of affinity for other species. Nevertheless there are
numerous Americana hybrids, and it is likely that as the high quality of
the fruit and the hardiness of the trees become better known they will be
used much more for hybridizing.

The Americana plums are all hardy and some of the varieties can be grown
as far north as general agriculture is practiced. These, with the Nigras,
will probably always be the chief groups for dry, cold regions between
the Great Lakes and the Rocky Mountains. They may also be relied upon in
the colder parts of New York and New England. The flower-buds as well
as the trees are hardy, having been known to withstand a temperature of
forty degrees below zero. Goff[114] reports that in the winter of 1896-7
the flower-buds of Domestica varieties on the grounds of the Wisconsin
Experiment Station were almost totally destroyed though the minimum
temperature recorded was only twenty-three degrees below zero, but the
flower-buds of Americana varieties were not at all injured. Since the
blossoms open comparatively late there is less damage from spring frosts
in this than in most other species even of the natives.

The number of varieties of Americana plums is a testimonial to the
merits of the species. There are about 260 varieties of them more or
less disseminated. There are many divergent types of these and since
all are far from what may be eventually expected from the species the
number of varieties will undoubtedly greatly increase and in still
other directions. In the meantime the great majority have fallen by the
wayside. The weeding-out process seems to be in this case the chief agent
of progression. A fault with the varieties now before the public is that
many of them are so similar that a difference can hardly be detected. The
elimination of the great majority of the varieties of this species now in
the catalogs and a much more judicious selection of varieties for future
dissemination would relieve pomology of the burden it now carries in the
numerous sorts of Americanas.


=PRUNUS AMERICANA MOLLIS=[115] Torrey and Gray

    =1.= Torrey and Gray _Fl. N. Am._ =1=:407. 1840. =2.= Sargent
    _10th Cen. U. S._ =9=:65. 1883. =3.= Coulter _Cont. U. S. Nat.
    Herb._ =2=:102. 1891. =4.= Sargent _Sil. N. Am._ =4=:19. 1892.
    =5.= Waugh _Bot. Gaz._ =26=:50. 1898.

    _P. americana lanata._ =6.= Sudworth _Nom. Arb. Fl. U. S._ 237.
    1897.

    _P. lanata._ =7.= Mackenzie and Bush _Trans. Acad. Sci. St.
    Louis_ =12=:83. 1902.

_Prunus americana mollis_ is a western and southwestern form of _Prunus
americana_, the sub-species being distinguished from the species by the
amount and character of the pubescence on the leaves and shoots. The
leaves, petioles and shoots of this plum are soft-pubescent, almost
tomentose, the tomentum being pale in color and usually very dense; the
calyx-lobes are pubescent on both sides and the pedicels are appressed
and densely pubescent. According to Bailey, there is a form of this
sub-species “with flowers as completely double as those of St. Peter’s
wreath, or similar spireas.” This double-flowering plum we have not seen.

It is impossible to give the range of _Prunus americana mollis_ as the
woolly-leaved plum of the west gradually passes into the smooth-leaved
species of the east and the two forms are not infrequently mixed in the
South and Southwest; or possibly it would be better to say that they run
into each other though the extreme forms are sufficiently distinct as to
be readily mistaken for separate species. It can only be said that it
is to be found in the greatest abundance in the region extending from
southern Iowa through Missouri. Only two varieties of this plum, Wolf and
Van Buren, are in general cultivation, both of which originated in Iowa.
In neither fruit nor tree-characters do these differ greatly from the
Americana plums.

A plum with pubescent leaves belonging to the Americana series
known locally as the Big Tree plum, occurs from western Tennessee,
south-westward through the extreme southern portion of Missouri, through
Arkansas, southern Oklahoma, extending westward in central Texas, at
least, as far as the Colorado River and reaching its southwestern limit
in northern Mexico. From specimens of this plum in several herbaria and
from studies made of it in the field by W. F. Wight of the United States
Department of Agriculture, it would seem that this plum is a distinct
species, its chief distinguishing character being the great size attained
by the tree. So far as it is known the Big Tree has no cultivated forms
unless it be Bilona, supposed to be a hybrid between this species and
_Prunus triflora_, now growing on the grounds of F. T. Ramsey, Austin,
Texas.


=11. PRUNUS HORTULANA= Bailey[116]

[Illustration: _PRUNUS HORTULANA_]

    =1.= Bailey _Gar. and For._ =5=:90. 1892. =2.= Sargent _Sil.
    N. Am._ =4=:23, Pl. 151. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =10=:99-105. 1897. =4.= Mohr _Torrey Bot. Club Bul._ =26=:118.
    1899. =5.= Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1450, fig. 1901. =6.= Mohr
    _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._ =6=:551. 1901.

    _P. americana_, var.? 7. Patterson _List Pl. Oquawka_ 5. 1874.

    Tree attaining a height of thirty feet or more, vigorous
    in growth; trunk sometimes a foot in diameter; trunk and
    branches rough and shaggy becoming furrowed in age; bark
    gray-brown, thick and containing deposits of red cork cells
    which show as bright red blotches or as thick layers when the
    bark is sectioned, these deposits, especially in quantity,
    characterizing the species; branches very spreading and open,
    twiggy, slender, thorny; branchlets light green at first,
    becoming reddish-brown, glabrous and glossy; lenticels few,
    large, very coarse, raised, characteristic of the species.

    Winter-buds plump, very small, obtuse, appressed; leaves one
    and three-quarters inches wide to five inches in length,
    long-oval with a tapering, pointed, acuminate apex, peach-like,
    base abrupt, texture thin, becoming leathery, margins serrate,
    almost crenate, sometimes in a double series, glandular;
    upper surface smooth, glossy, glabrous; lower surface light
    green, almost glabrous except on ribs and veins which are very
    pubescent, with characteristic orange color, midrib grooved
    above, rounded below, very prominent; petioles slender, an inch
    in length, pubescent on the upper side, tinged with red; glands
    two to eight, small, globose, mostly on the petioles.

    Flowers expanding after the leaves, blooming later than any
    other cultivated plum, three-quarters inch across; odor
    disagreeable; clusters borne from lateral buds on one-year-old
    wood only, characterizing the species, the fruit-spurs making
    a very long growth, more like branches than the spurs of other
    species, two to six flowers from a bud; pedicels three-quarters
    inch long, very slender, glabrous; calyx-tube narrow,
    campanulate, glabrous, green; calyx-lobes narrow, acute,
    glandular-serrate, glands red, slightly pubescent on the inner
    side, erect; petals ovate, slightly crenate, dentate at the
    apex, tapering into long narrow claws; stamens about twenty in
    number, yellow; pistils glabrous, equal to or shorter than the
    stamens.

    Fruit very late in ripening; globose, oval, an inch in
    diameter; color varying from shades of red to shades of
    yellow; bloom inconspicuous or lacking; dots numerous, small,
    conspicuous; suture very shallow or only a line; skin thick,
    tough, astringent; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, coarse, fibrous,
    firm, flavor mildly sweet, astringent at the pit, strongly
    aromatic; quality fair; stone clinging to the flesh, turgid,
    long-oval, small, prolonged at the ends, the surfaces rough and
    reticulated.

_Prunus hortulana_ as established by Bailey, to quote a part of the
original description, “includes a large class of plums represented by
Golden Beauty, Cumberland, Garfield, Sucker State, Honey Drop, probably
Wild Goose and others.” Unfortunately Bailey later added[117] a number
of other plums to the group which the above varieties and some ten or
fifteen others comprise, the additions in themselves constituting at
least three somewhat distinct groups, and then to account for this
omnibus species called it a “brood of natural hybrids.” Waugh supports
Bailey’s conclusions[118] and divides the species into four groups
of hybrids—the Miner group, the Wild Goose group and the Schley or
Clifford group. These, Waugh says, “form an unbroken series from _Prunus
americana_ to _Prunus angustifolia_.” The fourth of Waugh’s groups,
“comparatively distinct from the others, is made up of such varieties
as Wayland, Moreman, Golden Beauty, Reed, Leptune, Kanawha and others.”
These plums he designated as the “Wayland group.” This disposition of the
plums under consideration leaves _Prunus hortulana_ as the name of only a
rather loosely related lot of cultivated varieties. It is probable that
neither Bailey nor Waugh, had they seen the material now to be had, would
have left the species as they did.

There is an abundance of herbarium material to show that _Prunus
hortulana_ as originally described by Bailey, with the varieties
named as the type, leaving out Wild Goose, which is but doubtfully
included, and as represented by Waugh’s “Wayland group,” is to be found
wild in Illinois, western Kentucky, western Tennessee, Missouri and
northern Arkansas, Oklahoma and southeastern Kansas. The writer has
not seen material from states adjoining those named but the species is
probably more widely spread than the range given indicates. Further,
the cultivated varieties named by Bailey as members of his species,
to which should be added at least American Golden, Benson, Columbia,
Crimson Beauty, Dunlap, Kanawha, Leptune, Moreman, Reed, Wayland and
World Beater, are so similar in all their characters and constitute a
group so distinct from any other species that it is impossible to place
them otherwise than in a distinct species. A group of hybrids could
hardly be so uniform, and, moreover, these varieties contain characters,
like late blooming, late fruiting, color, texture and flavor of fruit,
leaf-serrations and deposits of red cork-cells in the bark, which other
native species do not have, thereby shutting out the probability of the
hybridity theory in which the supposed parents are _Prunus americana_
and _Prunus angustifolia_. Lastly, and most convincing, varieties of
the species come true to seed, which of course, would not be the case
were these plums hybrids. From seed borne in 1893 this Station has had
six seedlings of World Beater and four of Golden Beauty attain the age
of sixteen years with more or less fruit for thirteen successive years.
The seedlings could hardly be distinguished from the parents and showed
no pronounced characters of either of the species of which _Prunus
hortulana_ has been supposed to be the hybrid offspring.

Of the sixteen varieties named as certainly belonging to this species,
ten came from wild plants or seeds. Two of the remainder came from
planted seeds and the origin of the remaining four is not known. One of
the varieties from the wild, Golden Beauty, if its history as commonly
given is correct, came from the Colorado River in western Texas. The
Golden Beauty now under cultivation almost certainly belongs to _Prunus
hortulana_, though it differs somewhat from other varieties of the group,
but how it could have come from the wild in western Texas, so far from
the usual range of the species, is at present unexplainable. This and
other idiosyncrasies of distribution were reasons given by Bailey and
Waugh for calling this species a group of hybrids. A careful study of
localities from which all other Hortulana varieties than Golden Beauty
have come shows them to be well within the range of _Prunus hortulana_.
The fact that Golden Beauty is perfectly hardy at Geneva, and according
to Waugh fairly so at Burlington, Vermont, suggests either that what we
have as Golden Beauty did not originate in south central Texas or that
the plant from which it came must have been introduced there within
comparatively recent times.

_Prunus hortulana_ gives to American pomology a very distinct and
valuable group of plums which fortunately are adapted to a wide range
of conditions, especially of climate. The Hortulanas are particularly
well suited to the Mississippi Valley and southern states and fruit well
as far north and east as New York. The product of Wayland, Kanawha and
Golden Beauty, best known of the plums under discussion, is especially
suitable for preserves, spicing and jelly, being unsurpassed by any other
of our plums excepting the Damsons for these purposes. They are quite
too acid and the flesh clings too tenaciously to the stone for dessert
plums or even for ordinary culinary purposes. These plums, having firm
flesh and tough skins, ship and keep splendidly and since they are the
latest of the native plums in ripening, extend the season for this fruit
very materially. The Wayland-like plums make very good stocks upon which
may be grafted not only the varieties of the same species but those of
the other native species as well. A point of especial merit with these
plums as stocks is that they do not sucker as do most other species.
Unfortunately they cannot be propagated from cuttings and the difficulty
of obtaining seed at present precludes their use very generally. The
Hortulana plums hybridize freely with other native species and their
hybrids are such as to commend this species very highly to plum-breeders
for hybridization.

Waugh[119] has given the name _Prunus hortulana robusta_ to a group of
hybrid plums of which _Prunus triflora_ and various native varieties are
the parents. For most part these hybrids resemble the American more than
the Asiatic parent. Since these plums differ so among themselves it is
doubtful if more can be said as to the characters of Waugh’s group than
to mention the above resemblance. Some thirty or more varieties fall into
this group of which America, Golden, Juicy, Ruby, Waugh and Gonzales are
chief.


=PRUNUS HORTULANA MINERI= Bailey

[Illustration: _PRUNUS HORTULANA MINERI_]

    =1.= Bailey _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:23, 1892. =2.= Waugh _Vt.
    Sta. An. Rpt._ =10=:103. 1897. =3.= Britton and Brown =2=:247,
    1897.

It is impossible from present knowledge to say certainly whether the
Miner-like plums put by Bailey into a botanical sub-division of _Prunus
hortulana_ are extreme variations of the species or, as Bailey in his
last accounts and Waugh at all times have supposed, are hybrids between
_Prunus hortulana_ and _Prunus americana_. It is certain that all of
these plums are intermediate in some characters between the two species
named; neither botanists nor pomologists can agree as to whether certain
varieties belong to the one or the other botanical division. There are,
however, in several herbaria, specimens from the wild, and from different
localities, that indicate that there is a distinct plum toward the
northern limit of the range of _Prunus hortulana_ which, if a natural
hybrid, is of so ancient hybridity that the plants now come measurably
true to type. The chief representatives of the Miner-like plums under
cultivation, as Miner, Forest Rose, Prairie Flower and Clinton, are so
like these wild plums as to lead the writer to believe that Bailey’s
botanical sub-division is justified and is worth continuing even though
a considerable number of the varieties now put with Miner, most of which
have originated under cultivation, are hybrids and that the wild plums
may have come from natural hybrids of more or less remote time.

The sub-species differs from the species in having shorter, stiffer,
less graceful branches; leaves smaller, thicker, rougher and of a
bluish-green cast; the blossoms of the two are much the same but those of
the sub-species open a few days earlier; the fruits of the sub-species
are larger than those of the species, lighter red, have more bloom, are
less firm in texture, ripen earlier, yet later than those of any other
species, and are quite different in flavor, having more nearly the taste
of the fruit of _Prunus americana_; the stones, as well as the fruits,
are very different, being in the sub-species larger, broader, flatter,
smoother and less pointed. The differences in fruit and stone, and to
some extent in the leaves, can be seen if the color-plates of Forest Rose
and Wayland be compared.

In fruit-growing, the Miner-like plums behave in general much like the
Americana plums. In some respects the fruits are an improvement upon
those of the Americana varieties. For example the skin in the Miner-like
varieties is usually less tough; is brighter in color and the flavor, in
most cases, is a little better. These plums seem to be nearly or quite
as hardy as the Americanas and are adapted to quite as wide a range of
soils. Presumably they have the same value as stocks, though they seem
not to have been tried for this purpose and they should have equal value
at least in plant-breeding. The trees of the Miner-like plums are rather
more amenable to domestication than those of _Prunus americana_ having
as orchard plants straighter trunks, more symmetrical and less unkempt
tops and making larger trees. The fruits ripen so late as to make the
varieties of this group especially valuable in prolonging the season for
plums in regions where native varieties are grown exclusively. About
twenty varieties of this sub-species are under cultivation.


=12.= =PRUNUS NIGRA= Aiton

[Illustration: _PRUNUS NIGRA_]

    =1.= Aiton _Hort. Kew._ =2=:165. 1789. =2.= Sims _Bot. Mag._
    1117. 1808. =3.= Pursh _Fl. Am. Sept._ =1=:331. 1814. =4.=
    Torrey _Fl. U. S._ =1=:469. 1824. =5.= Sargent _Silva N. Am._
    =4=:15, Pl. 149. 1892. =6.= Small _Torrey Bot. Club Bul._
    =21=:301. 1894.

    _Cerasus nigra._ =7.= Loiseleur _Nouveau Duhamel_ =5=:32. 1812.

    _P. americana_ (in part). =8.= Torrey and Gray _Fl. N. Am_.
    =1=:407. 1840. 9. Torrey _Fl. N. Y._ =1=:194. 1843. =10.=
    Emerson _Trees of Mass._ Ed. 2, =2=:511. 1846. =11.= Nuttall
    _Silva_ =2=:19. 1852. =12.= Sargent _10th Cen. U. S_. =9=:65.
    1883. =13.= Watson and Coulter _Gray’s Man._ Ed. =6=:151. 1889.
    =14.= Gray _For. Trees N. A._ 46, Pl. 1891.

    _P. americana nigra._ =15.= Waugh _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =53=:60, fig.
    1896. =16.= Ibid. _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =10=:102. 1897. =17.=
    Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1449. 1901.

    _P. mollis._ =18.= Torrey _Fl. U. S._ =1=:470. 1824.

    Tree small, seldom exceeding twenty feet in height; trunk
    attaining six or eight inches in diameter, bearing the head
    at three to five feet from the ground; bark thin, one-quarter
    inch thick, from dark red to a light gray-brown, rough, but not
    shaggy, surface covered with thick scales; branches upright,
    stout, rigid, forming a compact rather narrow head, armed with
    stout, spiny spurs; branchlets more or less zigzag, glabrous or
    tomentose, green, later becoming reddish-brown; lenticels few
    or many, pale, slightly raised.

    Winter-buds of medium size, conical or long-acuminate,
    reddish-brown; leaves large, broad-oval, ovate or obovate,
    with a long acuminate apex and cuneate or subcordate base;
    margins doubly crenate-serrate with teeth tipped with glands
    which disappear as the leaves mature; thin and firm in texture;
    upper surface light green, glabrous, the under surface paler,
    pubescent when young and pubescent at maturity on some soils;
    midribs coarse but veins rather slender; petioles two-thirds
    inch long, rather stout, with two, sometimes but one, large,
    dark red glands near the blade, pubescent and tinged with red;
    stipules lanceolate, sometimes lobed, one-half inch in length.

    Flowers expanding early, before or with the leaves, large,
    sometimes one and one-half inches across; borne in three or
    four-flowered lateral umbels on slender, glabrous, red pedicels
    one-half inch or more in length; calyx-tube obconic, outer
    surface red, inner surface pink; calyx-lobes glabrous on both
    surfaces or with a few, straight, scattered hairs on the inner
    surface, pinkish, acute, glandular; petals pink, turning a
    darker pink in fading, rather broadly ovate, apex rounded,
    base a short claw, margins erose; stamens with yellow anthers;
    filaments one-half inch long; pistils glabrous, shorter than
    the stamens.

    Fruit ripening comparatively early; globose or oval, usually
    somewhat oblong, an inch or more through the long diameter,
    red, orange or yellowish in color, with little or no bloom;
    skin thick, tough and astringent; flesh yellow, firm, meaty,
    often acid or astringent; stone usually clinging, large, oval,
    compressed, thick-walled, with a sharp ridge on the ventral and
    a slight groove on the dorsal suture.

It is possible that a group of Nigras, those occurring in western
Wisconsin and Minnesota and about the upper extremity of Lake Superior
ought to be described as a sub-species since they have a somewhat
different aspect of tree and the fruits are a darker shade of red and
show more bloom; the calyx is more pubescent and the calyx-glands more
sessile. The differences in environment may change these characters, as
indicated above, but they seem very constant in the cultivated varieties
of the groups, most of which come from the west, and therefore sufficient
to segregate this form from the species.

The Nigra is the wild plum of Canada. Its most common name, “Canada
Plum,” is distinctly applicable and is here supplanted by “Nigra” only
for the sake of uniformity. This is undoubtedly the dried plum which
Jacques Cartier saw in the canoes of Indians, in his first voyage of
discovery up the St. Lawrence in 1534.[120] These primitive prunes,
Cartier says, the Indians called “honesta.” In his second voyage, the
next year, he enumerates among other fruits the plum, “prunier,” growing
on the “Ysle de Bacchus,” named from its “Vignes.” Dried plums, we learn
from many later accounts, were a staple article of the winter diet of
the savages. That the Indian tended the trees is probable, for the early
explorers often record that plantations of plums were found about the
aboriginal towns. Undoubtedly the range of this species was greatly
extended by the Indians.

The Nigra is the most northern of the American plums, being an inhabitant
of a region bounded on the north by a line passing from southern New
Foundland westward to the Strait of Mackinac and thence southward to
Lansing, Michigan. Its southern boundary can be but illy defined, but
the species is common in New England, northern New York, where it is
sometimes cultivated about houses, and westward at least as far as the
eastern shore of Lake Michigan for the species, while the western form
reaches the western boundary of Minnesota at least. Small[121] reports
it as far south in the Appalachian System as northern Georgia. In the
great region outlined above it is distributed in more or less scattered
localities, being found usually in the valleys of rivers and streams,
though often on high lands and in open woods, in the last locations
preferring a limestone formation.

There has been much discussion as to whether _Prunus nigra_ should be
given specific rank or be united with _Prunus americana_, either as a
part of that species or as a botanical variety of it. Until the revival
by Sargent in 1892 of the name given the group by Aiton in 1789, the
botanists of the latter half of the Nineteenth Century had for most
part described the two groups under _Prunus americana_. Since Sargent’s
re-establishment of the species, botanists have very generally regarded
it as worthy of the rank. Bailey and Waugh, the leading horticultural
authorities on plums, however, consider Nigra as but a botanical variety
of Americana. The taxonomic characters of _Prunus nigra_ seem to the
writers of _The Plums of New York_ to be as distinct as those of several
other of the native species of _Prunus_, and since the species now is
generally recognized by botanists, we have considered it in this work as
distinct from _Prunus americana_.

The two species may usually be distinguished by the following
differences: (1) The general aspect of the trees is very different. The
tree of Americana is larger, the top is more spreading, and its branches
longer, with more twigs, more slender and more pendulous. The bark on
the trunk is lighter-colored and much more shaggy than in Nigra. (2) The
wood of Nigra is tougher and the trees do not break as readily as those
of Americana. The wood is also lighter in color. (3) The leaves of Nigra
are larger, broader and the serrations are not so deeply incised nor
so often double. Very distinct and very constant are the glands to be
found on the teeth of the serrations on the young leaves of Nigra. These
glands disappear as the leaves grow older, leaving a calloused point
which makes the serrations of Nigra rounded, while those of Americana
are acute, this being one of the most constant differences. (4) The
flowers of Nigra appear several days earlier, are larger and are more
pink than those of Americana. (5) The calyx-lobes of Nigra are glandular
and the leaf-stalks are biglandular, characters usually not found in
Americana. The calyx in all its parts is glabrous or at least far less
pubescent than in Americana and if present the hairs are short and stiff,
whereas in Americana the pubescence is soft. (6) The fruit of Nigra
ripens earlier and is darker in color with less bloom and is more oblong
than that of Americana. The skin of the plum is thinner and is not so
objectionable either cooked or eaten out of hand. (7) The stone of Nigra
is usually larger, flatter and more strongly crested. The characters of
the two species vary much in different individuals and there are many
intermediate forms but the differences seem as constant as between other
species of this variable genus.

The Nigra plums are important horticulturally because they can be grown
in somewhat colder regions than the Americanas. They not only endure
more cold than the last named group, but their tough wood enables them
to stand better the weight of snows and the stress of winds. Their
earliness, too, prolongs the season for this type of fruit and in regions
where the season is short they may be grown with more certainty than
other groups. In habits and characters other than those named they are
so like the Americana as to need no further discussion. About forty
varieties of this species are under cultivation.


=13.= =PRUNUS ALLEGHANIENSIS= Porter

    =1.= Porter _Bot. Gaz._ =2=:85. 1877. =2.= Ibid. _Gar. and For._
    =3=:428, fig. 53. 1890. =3.= Sargent _Sil. N. Am._ =4=:27, Pl. 153.
    1892. =4.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fr._ 225. 1898.

    Tree low, slender, straggling, fifteen to eighteen feet in
    height, or a low shrub; trunk-diameter from five to eight
    inches; bark dark brown, surface fissured and scaly; branches
    numerous, upright, rigid, seldom spiny; branchlets pubescent,
    becoming glabrous and red, turning to dark brown; lenticels
    many, small, white.

    Leaves ovate-oblong or lanceolate, sometimes obovate, apex
    acute or acuminate, base rounded, margin sharply serrate,
    teeth fine and tipped with glands, in texture thick and firm;
    upper surface dark green and glabrous; lower surface light
    green, glabrous except on the veins and midrib; petioles short,
    slender, pubescent; glands two, large, at the base of the blade.

    Flowers white, fading to pink, one-half inch across, appearing
    with the leaves; borne in two to five-flowered umbels; pedicels
    slender, finely tomentose, from one-fourth to one-half inch
    in length; calyx-tube narrowly obconic; calyx-lobes entire,
    pubescent on the outer, tomentose on the inner surface; petals
    rounded but narrowing into claws at the base; filaments and
    ovary glabrous; anthers often reddish; style slender with a
    funnel-shaped apex.

    Fruit matures in summer or early autumn; from one-quarter to
    three-quarters inch in diameter, sub-globose or ovoid, dark
    blue or purple with heavy bloom; skin thick and tough; flesh
    yellow, juicy, acid and somewhat astringent; stone clinging to
    the flesh, turgid, acute at the ends, thin-walled, ridged on
    the ventral and grooved on the dorsal suture.

In leaf, flower and tree _Prunus alleghaniensis_ resembles _Prunus
americana_. The species has long been known to be distinct, however,
having been first distinguished by J. R. Lowrie of Warriorsmark,
Pennsylvania, in 1859,[122] and was published as such in 1877, when T.
C. Porter of Lafayette College described it as _Prunus alleghaniensis_.
It differs from _Prunus americana_ chiefly in the smaller size of the
plant, smaller leaves and flowers, in color of flowers which fade to pink
in this species, and in fruit-characters. The fruit matures earlier, is
much smaller in size, is more globose, and is a dark purple or blue with
very heavy bloom. The skin is thick and tough and while the texture of
the flesh is as good as that of the wild Americanas the flavor is much
more astringent. The stone is more swollen. The plant is commonly but
a shrub, usually found along fence rows and the borders of woodlands,
but intermingled among old thickets of this kind there are often a few
small trees. It is a hardy species, very productive, and seemingly but
little attacked by either insects or fungi, being especially exempt from
black-knot.[123] In the wild state it produces great numbers of suckers
which seem to spring very readily from a bruise or an exposed root.

The range of _Prunus alleghaniensis_ is exceedingly limited. It is found
in abundance only in a small territory in central Pennsylvania, being of
most frequent occurrence in the barrens of northern Huntingdon County,
extending from there north into Center County and northwestward over the
Alleghany Mountains into Clearfield and Elk counties. It grows for the
most part in elevated lands of the wildest character, being found on low,
moist soils, on high and dry barrens and on limestone cliffs, reaching
its greatest size in the last situation.

Specimens identified as _Prunus alleghaniensis_ have been found in at
least two places in Connecticut and the writer has just seen specimens
of a closely allied form collected by W. F. Wight of the United States
Department of Agriculture a few miles south of Houghton Lake, Roscommon
County, Michigan.

This plum is not yet introduced into cultivation and it is doubtful if
the wild fruits have sufficient merit to make an attempt at domestication
promising. While the wild fruits are locally used for various culinary
purposes it is so much inferior to other native plums, being almost
uneatable unless cooked, that its cultivation would hardly warrant
the effort. Arboretum specimens of the tree show it to be somewhat
desirable as an ornamental, being a small, compact, upright plant, very
floriferous, and bearing an abundance of rather attractive fruit.


=14.= =PRUNUS SUBCORDATA= Bentham

    =1.= Bentham _Pl. Hartweg._ 308. 1848. =2.= Torrey _Pac. R.
    Rpt._ =4=:82. 1854. =3.= Brewer and Watson _Bot. Calif._
    =1=:167. 1880 (in part). =4.= Lemmon _Pittonia_ =2=:68. 1890.
    =5.= Greene _Fl. Francis_ =1=:49. 1891. =6.= Bailey _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =38=:76. 1892. =7.= Sargent _Sil. N. Am._ =4=:31,
    32, Pl. 154. 1892.

    Tree small, rarely attaining a height of twenty-five feet,
    sometimes a shrub ten or twelve feet high and often a bush
    but three or four feet in height; trunk medium in length with
    a diameter of 8 to 12 inches; bark gray-brown and deeply
    fissured; branches stout and spreading; branchlets glabrous
    or pubescent, bright red becoming darker red and finally a
    dark-brown or gray; lenticels minute, whitish.

    Leaves round-ovate, sub-cordate or truncate, or sometimes
    cuneate at the base; margins either sharply or obtusely
    serrate, sometimes doubly serrate; young leaves pubescent but
    at maturity nearly glabrous, somewhat coriaceous, dark green
    on the upper and pale green on the lower surface, with very
    conspicuous midribs and veins; stipules acute-lanceolate,
    caducous.

    Flowers white, fading to rose, about an inch across; appearing
    before the leaves; usually borne in threes, often in pairs
    on short pubescent pedicels; calyx campanulate, with lobes
    pubescent on the outer and hairy on the inner surface; petals
    twice the length of the sepals, obovate, and contracted into
    short claws; filaments and ovary glabrous; style slender and
    funnel-shaped at the apex.

    Fruit ripens in late summer or early autumn; roundish or
    oblong, about one inch in length, borne on a short, stout stem,
    dark red or purplish; flesh subacid, well-flavored, clinging
    to the flattish or turgid stone which varies greatly in size,
    pointed at both ends, crested on the ventral edge and grooved
    on the other.

_Prunus subcordata_, the Pacific or Western plum, is an inhabitant of
the region east of the Coast Range from southern Oregon to central
California. It is so rarely found on the seacoast as to have escaped the
attention of the early botanists and remained unknown until the middle
of the Nineteenth Century, when Hartweg, working in the interior of
California, brought the plant to notice. This wild plum is not common
except in the foothills of the Sierra Nevadas in northern California
and southern Oregon, where it often forms thickets of small trees along
streams, thriving in fresh, fertile, sandy soils, in canons, on hillsides
or in the forests of yellow pine which are found in this region.
Hammond[124] writes of it growing here as usually a small tree but often
seen as a shrub from four to five feet high. Of the frequency of the
occurrence he says: “It often sets the whole countryside ablaze in the
autumn, with the abundance of its scarlet and crimson colors, mingled, of
course, with red and yellow, and garnished with a sprinkling of green.”
Sandberg[125] reports having collected _Prunus subcordata_ as far north
and east as Nez Perces County, northern Idaho, in the Craig Mountains at
an altitude of about 2,900 feet, but this report is based on an error
in determination, the specimen collected by Sandberg being clearly a
European species. The tree and the fruit vary greatly according to the
locality.

This Subcordata plum is one of the standard food products of the
aborigines in the region in which it grows, being eaten either raw or
cooked; and it is sometimes dried in considerable quantities at the
harvesting places and carried considerable distances to the Indian
villages.[126] The trappers, the first men to enter the habitat of this
plum, followed by the gold-seekers and ranchers, all knew and esteemed
the fruit. The early settlers regarded it as the most useful of all the
wild fruits of the Coast and attempts were made at an early date to
domesticate it. Of these Wickson says:[127]

    “In 1856 there was, on the Middle Yuba River, not far from
    Forest City, in Sierra County, a wayside establishment known as
    ‘Plum Valley Ranch,’ so-called from the great quantity of wild
    plums growing on and about the place. The plum by cultivation
    gave a more vigorous growth and larger fruit. Transplanted
    from the mountains into the valley they are found to ripen
    earlier. Transplanted from the mountains to a farm near the
    coast, in Del Norte County, they did not thrive. One variety,
    moved from the hills near Petaluma in 1858, was grown as an
    orchard tree for fifteen years, and improved both in growth and
    quality of fruit by cultivation.... Recently excellent results
    have been reported from the domestication of the native plum
    in Nevada County, and fruit shown at the State Fair of 1888
    gave assurance that by cultivation and by selecting seedlings
    valuable varieties can be obtained. It is stated that in Sierra
    County the wild plum is the only plum which finds a market at
    good prices, and that cultivated gages, blue and egg plums
    scarcely pay for gathering. The wild plum makes delicious
    preserves.”

In its typical form _Prunus subcordata_ is a shrub and is often only
a low bush but under the most favorable conditions it attains the
dimension and shape of a small tree. In its roundish, roughish leaves it
so closely resembles the Old World types of plums that it becomes the
nearest approach to them to be found among our American species. But in
the globular, red or purple subacid fruit it betrays its affinity to the
American plums, as it does also in the flat, sometimes turgid, smooth
stone to which the flesh tenaciously clings. The flowers are white,
fading to rose and borne abundantly, making the plant an attractive
ornamental in blooming time as it is also in the autumn when the foliage
turns to brilliant red, scarlet or crimson with touches of yellow. The
fruit is sometimes so poor in quality as to be inedible but on the other
hand is sometimes quite equal to some of the cultivated plums, especially
in its botanical variety, Kelloggii.

That the fruit is capable of improvement by the selection of seedling
varieties and useful in hybridizing with other species can hardly be
doubted. Luther Burbank, under date of December 6, 1909, writes in this
regard as follows:

    “The _Prunus subcordata_, as it grows wild, bears very heavily
    even on bushes two and three feet in height, bending the bushes
    flat on the ground when the fruit is ripe. This is a very
    beautiful sight. The wild ones, although almost invariably
    bright red and spherical, are sometimes, though rarely found,
    yellow. When the seed of the yellow fruit is planted a certain
    portion of red ones are produced, but all, practically, of the
    same size and quality as the original. The trees of Subcordata
    in the wild state are greatly variable in growth, generally
    much more so than in the fruit. The fruit, however, varies much
    in quality, but it is promiscuously gathered by those living in
    the vicinity of the plum grounds and considered most excellent
    for cooking. I commenced working on this species about
    twenty-two years ago and have not carried it on as extensively
    as with the Maritima, as I found it subject to plum-pockets,
    but by very careful selection I have produced most magnificent
    plums, oval in form or round, sweet as honey or sweet as the
    French Prune, greatly enlarged in size, tree improved in growth
    and enormously productive, the different varieties ripening
    through a long season. Most of these are light and dark red.
    Some of them, when cooked, are far superior to cranberries,
    having the exact delicious flavor so much liked in this fruit,
    and the same color.

    “From the crosses of Subcordata with the Americana, Nigra,
    Triflora and other species, some of the most beautiful and
    highest flavored fruits which I have ever seen have been
    produced. These vary in color from almost pure white to
    light yellow, transparent flesh color, pink, light crimson,
    scarlet, dark crimson and purple; in form round, egg-shaped
    or elongated-oval; trees both upright and weeping, enormously
    productive, and in one or two cases the fruit, by hundreds of
    experts, has been pronounced the best plum in flavor of any in
    existence. Most of these selections are extremely productive.”

Wickson[128] reports that the roots of Subcordata have been used more
or less as stocks for other plums but show no marked advantages over
the species commonly used for this purpose. Most of those who have
experimented with it condemn it as a stock because it dwarfs the cion and
suckers badly.

_Prunus oregana_ Greene[129] is from its description an interesting plum
of which, however, it has been impossible to secure a glimpse even of
herbarium material and of which we can therefore, only publish Greene’s
description as follows:

“Evidently allied to P. _subcordata_, but leaves little more than an inch
long, subcoriaceous, pubescent on both faces, in outline oval or broadly
elliptic, never subcordate, commonly acutish at both ends, serrulate;
flowers unknown; fruits in pairs or threes, on pedicels one-half inch
long or more, densely tomentose when very young, more thinly so, yet
distinctly tomentulose when half-grown.

“Known only from specimens collected on the Yanex Indian reservation
in southeastern Oregon, by Mrs. Austin, in 1893; and a most remarkable
species, as connecting true _Prunus_ with _Amygdalus_. But that it is a
plum and not an almond is evident.”

Without any first-hand knowledge of this species it is thought best to
consider it only under the allied species, _Prunus subcordata_.


=PRUNUS SUBCORDATA KELLOGGII= Lemmon

    =1.= Lemmon _Pittonia_ =2=:67. 1890. =2.= Wickson _Calif. Fr._
    Ed. =2=:51. 1891. =3.= Greene _Fl. Francis_ =1=:50. 1891. =4.=
    Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1448. 1901.

_Prunus subcordata kelloggii_, named in honor of Dr. Albert Kellogg,
an early explorer and settler in California, is distinguished from the
species in being a somewhat taller and more slender plant.[130] The
branches and bark are of a characteristic ash-gray, so distinct in color
from _Prunus subcordata_ that this is often called the “Gray-branch”
plum. The leaves are orbicular or elliptical, not cordate, cuneate
at the base and nearly glabrous. The fruit is bright yellow instead
of red and larger than that of the species, being an inch or more in
diameter with a more nearly free stone. This plum inhabits the region of
Mount Shasta where it has been known since the time of the early gold
diggers, attracting more attention as a food, and promising more for
the cultivator than Subcordata. Botanists seem to have given this plum
comparatively little attention and careful study may give it specific
rank. Locally, and now somewhat in the trade, it is known as the Sisson
plum, after a Mr. Sisson, living near Mount Shasta, who has brought it to
notice. At present the Kelloggii seems to be the branch of promise for
the improvement of the wild plums of the western coast.


=15. PRUNUS UMBELLATA= Elliott

    =1.= Elliott _Sk. Bot. S. C. and Ga._ =1=:541. 1821. 2. Sargent
    _10th Cen. U. S._ =9=:67. 1883. 3. Ibid. _Sil. N. Am._ =4=:33.
    Pl. 155. 1892. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 91. 1901. =5.= Mohr
    _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._ =6=:551. 1901.

    _Cerasus umbellata_. =6.= Torrey and Gray _Fl. N. Am._ =1=:409.
    1840.

    Tree low, sometimes a shrub, seldom over twenty feet in
    height; trunk short, usually crooked, attaining a thickness
    of ten inches; bark dark brown and scaly; branches spreading,
    slender, twiggy but spineless; branchlets at first pubescent
    but becoming glabrous, bright red turning dark brown the second
    year; lenticels few, oblong, yellowish.

    Leaves oblong-ovate, or oblong-obovate to oblong, thin and
    membranaceous, acute at the apex but usually obtuse or cordate
    at the base; margins closely and evenly serrate with glandular
    teeth, upper surface dark green and glabrous, lower surface
    pale green and more or less pubescent; petioles stout, glabrous
    or sometimes pubescent; glands usually two, sometimes wanting,
    large, dark, at the base of the leaf; stipules lanceolate,
    small, caducous.

    Flowers medium in size, appearing before and with the leaves;
    usually borne in four-flowered umbels; calyx-tube obconic, its
    lobes entire, outer surface glabrous or pubescent, the inner
    densely tomentose; petals white, orbicular, clawed.

    Fruit matures in late summer; one-half inch in diameter, nearly
    round, without cavity or suture, borne on a slender pedicel
    three-quarters inch long, orange-red or bright red to purple or
    nearly black, covered with a thin bloom; skin thick and tough;
    flesh coarse, thick, acid or astringent, scarcely edible; stone
    nearly free, flattened, acute at both ends, rugose, thin-walled.

_Prunus umbellata_, the Sloe, Black Sloe or Hog Plum, Oldfield, and
sometimes Chickasaw and Bullace of the South, is found along the seaboard
from South Carolina to central Florida, thence westward to the Gulf and
along its shores to Texas. Inland it is found as far north as middle
Georgia,[131] Alabama and Mississippi and southern Arkansas. Though very
common in localities in the region outlined, there are vast areas of
this territory in which it is scarcely found, preferring bottom lands of
rivers and rich, moist soils in some instances and dry, sandy copses,
open woods and borders of fields in others. In flower and fruit it is a
handsome and conspicuous plant, yet, as the references show, the early
botanists did not describe it, and even Elliott, who gave it its name, in
1821, passed it by with a scant description. Its neglect by the several
famous botanists of the Eighteenth Century who explored this region
must be attributed to their confusing it with _Prunus angustifolia_
and _Prunus maritima_, one or the other of which is found in most of
the region, and to the idiosyncrasies of the distribution of _Prunus
umbellata_.

The fruit of this species is unfit for dessert purposes but is commonly
gathered for culinary use and sometimes is offered for sale in the
markets of the South, being highly esteemed for pies, jams and jellies.
There appear to have been no efforts made to domesticate it, however, and
since it is quite inferior in fruit-characters to others of the native
plums, efforts to that end are probably not worth while.


=PRUNUS UMBELLATA INJUCUNDA= (Small) Sargent

    =1.= Sargent _Sil. N. Am._ =13=:21. 1902.

    _Prunus injucunda_. =2.= Small _Torrey Bot. Club Bul._ =25=:149.
    1898. =3.= Mohr _Ibid._ =26=:118. 1899. =4.= Ibid. _Cont. U. S.
    Nat. Herb._ =6=:552. 1901. =5.= Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1449.
    1901.

    Tree low, seldom twenty feet in height, often a straggling
    shrub; trunk short, crooked, attaining a diameter of eight
    inches; bark dark brown, nearly black; branches slender, rigid,
    twiggy and somewhat spiny; branchlets velvety becoming purplish
    and finally a dull gray; lenticels few, yellowish.

    Leaves oblong-ovate to obovate, taper-pointed at the apex and
    obtuse or rounded at the base, margins closely and finely
    toothed, thin in texture; upper surface yellowish-green,
    wrinkled and more or less pubescent, lower surface densely
    pubescent and with a prominent yellowish midrib and rather
    prominent lateral veins; petioles stout, one-half inch in
    length, very pubescent; stipules lanceolate, small, caducous.

    Flowers medium in size or small, usually appearing before the
    leaves; in four or five-flowered sub-sessile umbels; pedicels
    slender, three-quarters inch in length, very pubescent;
    calyx-tube obconic, tomentose, with erect, entire, sharply
    pointed, ciliate, tomentose lobes; petals white, orbicular,
    clawed; filaments and base of pistil tomentose.

    Fruit maturing in late summer, three-quarters inch long,
    oblong, with but a trace of cavity and suture, dark purple with
    light bloom; flesh thin, sour and very astringent; skin thick,
    tough; scarcely edible; stone ovoid, long, flat, roughish,
    pointed at both ends with a groove on one edge and a grooved
    ridge on the other.

In 1898 Small described _Prunus injucunda_ as a new species from what
had hitherto been considered a part of _Prunus umbellata_. Sargent, whom
we follow, gives it as a botanical variety of _Prunus umbellata_. Small
says that the two differ as follows: _Prunus injucunda_ has “a more rigid
habit and the foliage, including the branchlets, is velvety tomentose.
In place of the sub-globose drupe of _Prunus umbellata_ we find an
oblong fruit of an extremely bitter taste. The stone is correspondingly
lengthened.” To these differences may be added tomentose or pubescent
leaves, hairy umbels, and tomentose calyx and pistil, as characters
not found in _Prunus umbellata_ though there are occasional pubescent
individuals in the species.

Small first collected _Prunus injucunda_ in sandy soil in the granite
districts about the base of Little Stone Mountain, Georgia, and reports
it as occurring about Stone Mountain. Mohr reports the plant on rocky
summits and among the sandstone cliffs of Alpine Mountain, Talladego
County, Alabama, as a low, unsightly shrub, four feet in height, with
short, straggling branches. The wild fruit is seldom fit for domestic use
and with so much better material in other species the fruit-grower can
hardly afford to spend time in an attempt to domesticate this one.


=16.= =PRUNUS MITIS= Beadle

    =1.= Beadle _Bilt. Bot. Stud._ =1=:162. 1902. =2.= Britton and
    Brown _N. Am. Trees_ 489. 1908.

    Tree small, maximum height twenty-five feet; bark dark brown
    or reddish-gray; branches spreading or ascending, usually
    unarmed; branchlets glabrous, glaucous; leaves thin, elliptic,
    oblong-lanceolate, sometimes ovate or obovate, apex acute or
    acuminate, base narrow or rounded, margin sharply serrate;
    petioles less than one-half inch, densely pubescent, with two
    glands at or on the base of the leaf; upper surface bright
    green, finely pubescent, lower surface paler, also pubescent
    and with a prominent midrib and veins.

    Flowers of medium size, appearing before the leaves; borne in
    sub-sessile, two to six-flowered umbels; calyx-tube obconic,
    smooth, its lobes triangular, pubescent on the outer and
    velvety on the inner surface; petals white, obovate, clawed;
    pedicels slender, smooth, three-quarters inch long.

    Fruit ripening in mid-summer; over one-half inch in length,
    oblong, dark purple with a heavy bloom; stone ovoid or oval,
    flattened, nearly one-half inch long, pointed at both ends
    especially at the apex, and crested on one edge.

_Prunus mitis_ is a newly named species from Alabama, common in dry soils
in the regions where it is found wild. The species has many characters
in common with _Prunus umbellata_ to which it is so closely related that
it is difficult to distinguish the two in herbarium specimens. Although
nothing is yet known of its horticultural possibilities the apparent
relationship does not indicate much value in the plum for the cultivator.


=17.= =PRUNUS TARDA= Sargent

    =1.= Sargent _Bot. Gaz._ =33=:108. 1902. =2.= Ibid. _Sil. N.
    Am._ =13=:23, Pl. 632. 1902.

    Tree from twenty to twenty-five feet in height; trunk tall,
    eighteen or twenty inches in diameter; bark light brown,
    reddish, thick, with flat ridges and plate-like scales;
    branches spreading, forming an open symmetrical head;
    branchlets slender, at first light green and tomentose becoming
    glabrous, light brownish and lustrous, and the second year much
    darker; lenticels small, dark, scattered.

    Leaves oblong to obovate, apex acute and sharp-pointed, base
    rounded or cuneate, margin finely serrate with incurved,
    glandular teeth, in texture thick and firm; upper surface
    glabrous, dark yellow-green, lower surface pubescent, pale
    green; petioles stout, tomentose or pubescent, short,
    eglandular or with two stalked, dark glands at the apex;
    stipules acicular, often bright red, small.

    Flowers three-quarters inch across, appearing before and with
    the leaves; borne in two or three-flowered umbels, on slender,
    glabrous pedicels; calyx-tube narrowly obconic, hairy above,
    the lobes acute, entire, villose on the outer, tomentose on the
    inner surface; petals oblong-obovate with a short claw at the
    base; filaments and pistils glabrous.

    Fruit maturing very late; short-oblong to sub-globose,
    one-third to one-half inch in length, red, yellow, purple,
    black or blue; skin tough and thick; flesh thick and acid;
    stone adhering to the flesh, ovoid, more or less compressed,
    very rugose, ridged on the ventral and grooved on the dorsal
    suture, acute at the apex, rounded at the base.

_Prunus tarda_, locally known as the Sloe, as are many other plums, was
named from specimens collected in 1901 near Marshall, Texas, by Sargent
and others. Sargent, to whom is due what field knowledge we have of the
plant, gives its range from where found in Texas to western Louisiana
and southern Arkansas. He says that it resembles and is often confounded
with _Prunus umbellata_ but may be distinguished from it by its bark,
which differs from that of any other American plum tree, being more like
that of the chinquapin chestnut with which it grows; by the pubescence on
the leaves, not usually found on those of _Prunus umbellata_; and by its
variously colored fruit which ripens much later than that of other plums
in the region. From what has been published in regard to the species
one gathers little in regard to its horticultural possibilities though
the statements that it bears great quantities of fruit and is used
locally for culinary purposes indicate that it may have some value under
cultivation.


=18.= =PRUNUS ANGUSTIFOLIA= Marshall

    =1.= Marshall _Arb. Am._ 111. 1785. =2.= Torrey and Gray _Fl.
    N. Am._ =1=:407. 1840. =3.= Loudon _Arb. Fr. Brit._ =2=:705.
    1844. =4.= Sargent _10th Cen. U. S._ =9=:66. 1883. =5.= Watson
    and Coulter _Gray’s Man._ Ed. =6=:152. 1889 (in part). =6.=
    Gray _For. Trees N. A._ 47, Pl. 1891. =7.= Sargent _Sil. N.
    Am._ =4=:25, Pl. 152. 1892. =8.= Mohr _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._
    =6=:551. 1901.

    _P. chicasa._ =9.= Michaux[132] _Fl. Bor. Am._ =1=:284. 1803.
    =10.= Nuttall _Gen. N. Am. Pl._ =1=:302. 1818. =11.= Elliott
    _Sk. Bot. S. C. and Ga._ =1=:542. 1821. =12.= Hall _Pl. Texas_
    9. 1873. =13.= Ridgway _Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus._ 65. 1882. =14.=
    Chapman _Fl. Sou. U. S._ 131. 1897.

    Plant seldom becoming a true tree, usually, however, forming a
    small but distinct trunk with a twiggy, bushy top; bark thin,
    dark reddish-brown, slightly furrowed or roughened, scaly;
    branches slender, usually zigzag with long, thin thorns or
    spine-like branchlets; branchlets slender, zigzag, glabrous,
    glossy, bright red; lenticels few, scattered, yellowish, raised.

    Winter-buds small, obtuse, free, brownish; leaves folded
    upward, lanceolate or oblong-lanceolate, pointed at both ends,
    thin, membranaceous, margins closely and finely serrate with
    minute teeth, tipped with glands; upper surface glabrous,
    lustrous, bright green, lower surface glabrous or pubescent
    in the axils of the veins, dull, two-thirds inch wide and
    from one to two inches long; petioles one-half inch long,
    slender, glabrous or tomentose, bright red with two red glands
    near or on the base of the leaf; stipules one-half inch long,
    narrow-lobed, serrate with gland-tipped teeth.

    Flowers appearing with or before the leaves, small, less than
    one-half inch across, very numerous; umbels sub-sessile, two to
    four-flowered, from lateral spurs or buds; pedicels glabrous,
    slender, one-half inch in length; calyx-tube campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse, glabrous outside, margins
    ciliate, inner surface pubescent, reflexed; petals creamy in
    the bud, obovate, apex rounded, narrowing into a claw at the
    base; filaments and pistils glabrous, the latter shorter than
    the stamens.

    Fruit ripening early; spherical or ovoid, three-quarters inch
    in diameter, bright red, sometimes yellow, glossy, with little
    or no bloom; dots numerous, very conspicuous; skin thin;
    flesh tender, juicy, yellow, subacid; quality rather poor;
    stone small, clinging, ovoid, turgid, slightly roughened,
    cherry-like, edges rounded, the dorsal one grooved.

The original home of _Prunus angustifolia_ is not known. The inference is
left in most of the botanies that the species is not indigenous in the
region east of the Mississippi, but that it was brought by the aborigines
from the southwestern section of the Mississippi Valley or possibly the
southern Rocky Mountains or Mexico. The chief reason for the belief that
it does not belong where it now grows is the fact that it is usually
found near human habitations and on the margins of fields and as it was
known to have been cultivated by the Indians,[133] it is supposed to have
escaped from their semi-cultivated plantations. Bailey[134] dissents from
the current view, holding that the plant behaves like a true native in
regions where he has known it, Maryland in particular. It seems to the
writer that Bartram’s supposition, given in the foot-note below, has been
followed too closely. A careful study of recent botanical works indicates
that the species is indigenous to the southeastern United States.

Whatever the original habitat may have been it is now found in the wild
state from southern Delaware to Florida and westward to the Panhandle of
Texas and southern Oklahoma. It is usually found on rich soils but is
found as well in worn-out fields and pastures, most often in thickets
of small trees or thorny shrubs or scraggly bushes, producing under the
latter conditions a small fruit so like cherries as to give it the name
in some localities “Mountain Cherry” (Maryland), and in others “Wild
Cherry” (Louisiana).

There has been much confusion in regard to _Prunus angustifolia_. The
older botanists very generally mistook this species for Michaux’s
_Prunus chicasa_ which, as stated in the foot-note on page 82, is almost
certainly not the plum under discussion. Practically all horticulturists
ascribe to _Prunus angustifolia_ a great number of cultivated varieties
which cannot by any possibility belong here; indeed, it is doubtful if
the species is cultivated at all other than very locally, and still
more doubtful as to whether, as compared with other native plums,
it is worth growing. In spite of this confusion the species is one
of the most distinct of plums, and its characters are comparatively
constant throughout the range. A careful reading of Humphrey Marshall’s
description of _Prunus angustifolia_ by subsequent botanists might have
helped to keep this plum in its place. Marshall wrote of it:

“Prunus angustifolia. Chicasaw Plumb. This is scarcely of so large a
growth as the former [_P. americana_], but rising with a stiff, shrubby
stalk, dividing into many branches, which are garnished with smooth,
lance-shaped leaves, much smaller and narrower than the first kind [_P.
americana_], a little waved on their edges, marked with very fine,
slight, coloured serratures, and of an equal shining green colour, on
both sides. The blossoms generally come out very thick and are succeeded
by oval, or often somewhat egg-shaped fruit, with a very thin skin, and
soft, sweet pulp. There are varieties of this with yellow and crimson
coloured fruit. These being natives of the Southern states, are somewhat
impatient of much cold.”

The tree-characters given by Marshall are hardly those of the plum under
cultivation which we have been calling _Prunus angustifolia_, and his
statement that the species is “impatient of much cold” at once separates
the cultivated “Angustifolias” from the true species. We shall contrast
the tree-characters of the two groups of plums in the discussion of
_Prunus munsoniana_. Of the hardiness of the two it may be said that the
cultivated varieties which we have placed in the last named species are
for the most part hardy as far north as Burlington, Vermont, while the
true _Prunus angustifolia_ cannot be grown to fruiting as far north as
Geneva, New York. Its behavior, too, on the northern limit of its range,
and the fact that it did not follow the aborigines northward as it seems
to have followed them from place to place within its range, show that
_Prunus angustifolia_ belongs in the southern states.

This plum was well known by the early colonists of Virginia and
southward. John Smith in Virginia, in 1607-9, and Strachey, writing
a few years later, saw “cherries much like a damoizm, but for their
taste and cullour we called them cherries.” Beverly in his _History of
Virginia_, written in 1822, speaks of two sorts of plums, “the black and
the Murrey Plum, both of which are small and have much the same relish
with the Damasine”; the latter was probably the Angustifolia. Lawson in
his _History of Carolina_ speaks of several plums,[135] one of which,
the Indian plum, must have been the fruit of the present discussion.
Bruce[136] quotes a letter from William Fitzhugh, written in 1686, in
which the latter speaks of the “Indian Cherry,” meaning of course, this
plum; for it still passes under the same name.

Of the horticultural possibilities of _Prunus angustifolia_, little
can be said from this Station as the trees cannot be grown here. But
since the species has been so long known, and is so near at hand to
fruit-growers, without more of its offspring coming under cultivation,
it is not likely that it may be counted upon to bring forth much in the
future for the orchard. Such trees and fruits of this species as the
writer has seen are not at all promising for the cultivator.


=PRUNUS ANGUSTIFOLIA WATSONI= (Sargent) Waugh[137]

    =1.= Waugh _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:239. 1899. =2.= Bailey
    _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1450 fig. 1901.

    _P. watsoni._ =3.= Sargent _Gar. and For._ =7=:134, fig. 1894.
    =4.= Waugh _Bot. Gaz._ =26=:53. 1898. =5.= Bailey _Ev. Nat.
    Fr._ 218. 1898.

    Shrub four to ten feet high; branches slender, short-jointed,
    zigzag, reddish-brown; branchlets at first bright red and
    lustrous, later becoming brownish-red or sometimes ashy-gray;
    lenticels few and light-colored; leaves small, ovate, apex
    acute, base rounded or cuneate, margins finely crenulate; upper
    surface glabrous, shining, lower surface paler, glabrous;
    petioles reddish, one-half inch in length, biglandular at the
    apex.

    Flowers in fascicles of two to four, borne with or before the
    leaves and in great abundance; calyx cup-shaped, the lobes
    acute, eglandular, ciliate on the margins, pubescent on the
    inner surface; petals white, obovate, contracted into a claw at
    the base; filaments glabrous, anthers reddish, style slender,
    exserted; pedicels one-quarter inch long.

    Fruit two-thirds inch in diameter, globose, sometimes oblong,
    orange-red, bloomless, handsome; skin thin, rather tender;
    flesh yellow, juicy, tender, pleasant flavor; of comparatively
    high quality; stone somewhat turgid, compressed at the apex,
    thick-walled, rounded on the ventral and sometimes on the
    dorsal suture.

_Prunus angustifolia watsoni_ is the Sand plum of the plains, being an
inhabitant of southern and southeastern Nebraska and central and western
Kansas and possibly passing into western Oklahoma. It is usually found
along the banks of streams and rivers where it often forms shrubby
thickets. The wild plums are held in high esteem for dessert and
culinary purposes, becoming a commercial product in parts of the region
in which they grow, and are occasionally transplanted to the garden or
orchard. From such transplantings a half dozen varieties have arisen.
The productiveness, hardiness to heat and cold and the size and quality
of the fruits should attract plum-growers in the region of its habitat
and experimenters elsewhere as well. Waugh[138] gives the following
interesting sketch of the use to which this plum has been put in Kansas:

    “Early settlers in Kansas, before their own orchard plantings
    came into bearing, used to find the sand plums well worth their
    attention. In July and August everybody for fifty miles back
    from the Arkansas sand hills used to flock thither to pick, and
    it was an improvident or an unlucky family which came off with
    less than four or five bushels to can for winter. Whole wagon
    loads of fruit were often secured, and were sometimes offered
    for sale in neighboring towns.

    “The fruit gathered from the wild trees was of remarkably fine
    quality, considering the conditions under which it grew. The
    plums were quite uniformly large—I would say from memory that
    they often reached three-fourths of an inch to an inch in
    diameter. They were thin-skinned and of good flavor, not having
    the unpleasant astringency of the wild Americana plums, which
    were also sometimes gathered. They were excellent for canning
    and made the finest of jelly.

    “Naturally, the settlers who went every year to the sand hills
    for plums brought back trees to plant in the gardens they were
    opening. Almost every farm within the range mentioned above
    had a few or many of the dwarf trees growing. Some of these
    were fruitful and worth their room, but most of them have now
    died out, or are neglected and forgotten. This is because
    people have paid no attention to their selection, propagation
    and cultivation. Further than this, however, the sand plum has
    often failed signally to come up to its record when transferred
    to cultivation. It seems not to adapt itself readily to a wide
    diversity of soils and conditions.”

The sub-species is easily mistaken for the species; in herbarium
specimens it is almost impossible to distinguish between them, but in
general the Sand plum differs from Angustifolia in its dwarfer habit,
shorter-jointed, zigzag, ashy-gray branches, smaller but thicker leaves,
larger, thicker skinned and better flavored fruit which ripens later, and
in a smaller and somewhat differently marked stone. In distinguishing the
two groups some allowance must be made for the adaptability of plums to
different environments.


=PRUNUS ANGUSTIFOLIA VARIANS= Wight and Hedrick

    Plant a small tree, attaining a height of twenty-five feet;
    trunk small but well-defined; branches spreading, bushy,
    sometimes armed with spinescent branchlets; young wood slender,
    more or less zigzag, usually glabrous, glossy, reddish but
    approaching a chestnut-brown; lenticels few, scattered,
    yellowish, raised.

    Leaves oblong, oval-lanceolate or rarely slightly
    obovate-lanceolate, one and one-fifth to two and one-fifth
    inches long, three-quarters to one inch broad, gradually
    narrowed at the base, acute at the apex; margins very minutely
    glandular-serrate; upper surface glabrous and somewhat
    lustrous; lower surface paler, glabrous or sparingly hairy
    along the midrib and in the axils of the lateral veins;
    petioles slender, usually reddish, about one-half inch long,
    pubescent along the upper side, eglandular or sometimes with
    one or two glands at the apex; stipules small, linear and
    glandular-dentate.

    Flowers appearing from early in March and before the leaves
    in the South, to the middle of April and with the leaves in
    the North, in dried specimens about one-half inch broad;
    pedicels three-eighths to one-half inch long, glabrous;
    calyx campanulate, the tube glabrous; calyx-lobes usually
    shorter than the tube, oblong and obtuse, glabrous on the
    outer surface, glabrous or sometimes sparingly pubescent on
    the inner, the margin ciliate, eglandular; petals obovate,
    gradually narrowed toward the base, erose or entire toward the
    apex.

    Fruit globose or sub-globose, varying from red to yellow,
    usually with a light bloom; stone about one-half inch long,
    two-fifths inch broad, turgid, ovoid to elliptic-oblong,
    obscurely pointed at the apex or sometimes slightly obtuse,
    truncate or obliquely truncate at the base, grooved on the
    dorsal edge, ventral edge with a narrow, thickened and slightly
    grooved wing, the surfaces irregularly roughened.

Yellow Transparent may be considered a typical variety. Type specimens in
the Economic Collection of the Department of Agriculture were collected
at the Eastern Shore Nurseries of J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland, (flowers)
I. Tidestrom, April, 1910; (foliage and fruit) P. L. Ricker No. 2933,
June 29, 1909.

In the wild, _Prunus angustifolia varians_ forms dense thickets, the
larger specimens attaining a height of ten or twelve feet. When budded
and grown in the orchard it assumes the form of a small tree with well
defined trunk and spreading branches, sometimes armed with rather slender
spinescent branchlets. It is distinguished from the species by its
usually more robust habit, by its having the young twigs less reddish
and approaching a chestnut-brown in color, rather longer leaves, longer
pediceled flowers, and by the stone in most cases being more pointed
at the apex. Usually in more fertile soil than the species, it occurs
locally from southern Oklahoma through eastern Texas southward possibly
to the Colorado River, and probably westward to the Panhandle region. As
yet, however, its distribution is not well defined.

Nearly all of the early ripening horticultural varieties previously
referred to _Prunus angustifolia_ belong to _Prunus angustifolia
varians_. The fruit of the sub-species appears to be superior to that of
the species though scarcely equal to that of the other southern plums now
cultivated. Hybrids between this form and _Prunus munsoniana_ undoubtedly
occur freely both in the wild state and under cultivation. The varieties
Eagle and El Paso have probably originated in this way. Nearly all of the
plums belonging to this species, some twenty in all, are tender to cold,
none, so far as is known, succeeding in the North. African, Cluck, Jennie
Lucas and Yellow Transparent may be named as representative varieties.


=19.= =PRUNUS MUNSONIANA=[139] Wight and Hedrick

[Illustration: _PRUNUS MUNSONIANA_]

    _Prunus angustifolia._ =1.= Bailey _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:58.
    1892 (in part). =2.= Ibid. _Ev. Nat. Fr._ 191-194. 1898 (in
    part). =3.= Waugh _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =10=:99, 105. 1897 (in
    part).

    _Prunus hortulana._ =4.= Bailey _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:48.
    1892 (in part). =5.= Waugh _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =10=:99,
    103-105. 1896-97 (in part).

    Tree medium to large, from twenty to thirty feet in height;
    trunk six to ten inches in diameter; bark grayish-brown,
    shaggy, furrowed; branches spreading, rather slender, zigzag,
    little or not at all thorny; branchlets slender, zigzag,
    reddish, lustrous, glabrous; lenticels numerous, large, raised.

    Winter-buds small, short, obtuse, usually free; leaves one and
    one-quarter inches wide by four inches long, lanceolate to
    oblong-lanceolate, sometimes broadly so, somewhat folded, apex
    acute or tapering, usually rounded at the base, texture thin,
    margins closely and finely serrate, teeth with small, dark red
    glands; upper surface bright green, glabrous, lustrous; lower
    surface dull green, pubescence sparse along the midrib and
    veins or sometimes tufted in the axils; petioles slender, about
    three-quarters of an inch long, pubescent on the upper surface,
    reddish, usually with two glands at the base of the leaf-blade;
    stipules linear, glandular, serrate.

    Flowers appearing before or with the leaves, season of
    blooming late, about three-quarters inch across, odor
    sometimes disagreeable; borne on lateral spurs and buds, two
    or four flowers in a cluster; pedicels one half inch long,
    slender, glabrous; calyx-tube campanulate, glabrous, obscurely
    nerved, about one-fourth length of the pedicel; calyx-lobes
    as long as tube, ovate-oblong, obtuse at the apex, usually
    glabrous outside, pubescent inside at least toward the base,
    glandular-ciliate, erect; petals one-third inch long, white,
    creamy in the bud, oval or obovate, margins slightly erose,
    abruptly tapering into a claw, sometimes pubescent; stamens
    about twenty in number, equal to or shorter than the petals;
    filaments glabrous; anthers yellow or sometimes tinged red;
    pistils glabrous shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit ripening early; globose or oval, shortest diameter about
    an inch, bright currant-red, rarely yellow; bloom thin; dots
    few or numerous, whitish, large or small, always conspicuous;
    cavity shallow, narrow; suture a line; apex rounded or slightly
    depressed; flesh light to dark yellow, juicy, soft or melting,
    fibrous, sweetish, sour at the pit, aromatic; good; stone
    clinging to the flesh, varying from about one-half inch in
    length in the wild fruits to at least three-quarters inch in
    cultivated varieties, turgid, oval, prolonged and pointed at
    the apex, usually obliquely truncate at the base, more or less
    roughened, grooved on the dorsal edge, thick-margined and
    markedly grooved on the ventral one.

The description of this species is based on both wild and cultivated
material, and the variety Arkansas may be considered as a typical
representative. Type specimens, deposited in the Economic Collection
of the United States Department of Agriculture, were collected by W.
F. Wight (flowers) at the New York State Experiment Station, Geneva,
New York, No. 2721, May 15, 1909, and (foliage) at the Iowa Experiment
Station, Ames, Iowa, No. 4178, September 15, 1909.

This species differs from _Prunus angustifolia_, with which it has long
been confused, chiefly in being a much larger plant, a true tree while
the other seldom reaches the size of a tree. It has coarser and less
twiggy branches, shaggier bark and less red in the color of the young
wood. The leaves are larger, thicker, more truly lanceolate in shape,
less folded, a lighter green and less glossy. The flowers of the new
species are larger, fewer in number, borne in less dense umbels which
are not so nearly sessile as those of the older species and are borne on
longer pedicels. The calyx-lobes are erect in this species and reflexed
in _Prunus angustifolia_, strongly marked by marginal glands in _Prunus
munsoniana_ and eglandular in _Prunus angustifolia_. The fruits are
larger and wholly plum-like in the newly made species and cherry-like in
_Prunus angustifolia_. The stone is very plum-like in _Prunus munsoniana_
but in the older species it might easily be mistaken for the pit of a
cherry. The robust form is hardy as far north as Geneva, New York, at
least, while the other species cannot be grown much north of Mason and
Dixon’s line.

Of the varieties which certainly belong to this species by far the
greatest number have originated under cultivation. There is herbarium
material from uncultivated plants to show that this species is rather
common in the northern part of Texas, in eastern Oklahoma and in parts
of Missouri. It is a species forming dense thickets in its native
habitat, where it is usually found in rather rich soils, with the older
central specimens sometimes attaining a height of twenty to twenty-five
feet and gradually diminishing in height to the edge of the thicket.
When budded and grown in the orchard it forms a well-defined trunk and
attains a height of twenty-five feet or more. The branches are little or
not at all spinescent, bark of the stem in young specimens reddish or
chestnut-brown, and usually rather smooth, becoming scaly and losing its
reddish color with age, that of the young twigs usually chestnut-brown.
Its natural range, though not yet definitely determined, probably extends
from central Tennessee through northern Mississippi, northern Arkansas,
central Missouri and southeastern Kansas to the valley of the Little
Wichita River in northern Texas.

The Wild Goose varieties, now placed here, in the past have been
considered hybrids more closely resembling _Prunus hortulana_ than any
other species. But Wild Goose and some other varieties of its group are
not to be distinguished from _Prunus munsoniana_ and beyond question
belong in this species. The varieties in this division of Munsoniana
are largely seedlings of Wild Goose, each variety possibly with a
different male parent since Wild Goose seldom or never fruits unless
cross-fertilized. Thus, of these plums, twelve are known seedlings of
Wild Goose; seven others originated under cultivation; the origin of
fourteen is not known and it is not certain that any beside Wild Goose
came from wild plants. From such a record, and from the characters of
the plants, it is probable that some of the Wild Goose varieties are
horticultural hybrids, many of them from H. A. Terry of Iowa in whose
work, with many varieties of several species, hybridity was the rule.

Horticulturally, this is the most important group of native plums for
the South; it contains a greater number of cultivated varieties than
any other native species excepting _Prunus americana_, no less than
sixty sorts being listed in _The Plums of New York_, some of which
are deservedly the best known of the native plums for either home or
market use. For dessert or the kitchen they are particularly valuable,
having a sprightly vinous flavor making them very pleasant flavored to
eat out of hand or when cooked. Their bright colors, semi-transparent
skins and well-turned forms make them very attractive in appearance.
Considering the juiciness of most of the varieties, these plums ship and
keep well. Unfortunately nearly all of the varieties of this species
are clingstones. This group hybridizes more freely than any other of
the plums and there are a great number of promising hybrids of which
it is one of the parents. Of all plums, these are most in need of
cross-pollination, some of the varieties being nearly or, as in the case
of Wild Goose, wholly self-sterile. While these plums are especially
valuable in the Southern States, some of them are desirable in the North
as well, where all will grow at least as far north as central New York.
Plums of this species are occasionally but not often used as stocks. Some
recommend them for stocks for low or wet lands. The fact that _Prunus
munsoniana_ suckers very badly will probably preclude its use largely in
propagating.

The leading varieties under cultivation of this species are Arkansas,
Pottawattamie, Robinson, Newman, Wild Goose and Downing, all of which are
described in full and illustrated in colors in _The Plums of New York_.
The first four of these have in the past been referred by botanists
and pomologists to _Prunus angustifolia_ and the last two to _Prunus
hortulana_.


=20.= =PRUNUS MARITIMA= Marshall

    =1.= Marshall _Arbust. Am._ 112. 1785. =2.= Wangenheim _Amer._
    103. 1787. =3.= Michaux _Fl. Bor. Am._ =1=:284. 1803. =4.= Pursh
    _Fl. Am. Sept._ 332. 1814. =5.= Nuttall _Gen. N. Am. Pl._
    =1=:302. 1818. =6.= Elliott _Sk. Bot. S. C. and Ga._ =1=:543.
    1821. =7.= Torrey and Gray _Fl. N. Am._ =1=:408. 1840. =8.=
    Torrey _Fl. N. Y._ =1=:194. 1843. =9.= Emerson _Trees of Mass._
    449. 1846. =10.= Bailey _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:75, fig. No.
    9. 1892. =11.= Waugh _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:234. 1899. =12.=
    Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1449, fig. 1901.

    _P. littoralis._ =13.= Bigelow _Fl. Bost._ Ed. =2=:193. 1824.

    _P. pubescens._ =14.= Torrey _Fl. U. S._ 469. 1824.

    _Cerasus pubescens._ =15.= Seringe _DC. Prodr._ =2=:538. 1825.
    =16.= _Beck Bot. Nor. and Mid. U. S._ 96. 1833.

    Shrub four to ten feet high, sometimes a low tree under
    cultivation; main branches decumbent and straggling or upright
    and stout; bark dark brown or reddish, more or less spiny,
    often warty; branchlets slightly pubescent at first, becoming
    glabrous, dark reddish-brown, straight or slightly zigzag and
    rather slender; lenticels few, small, dark.

    Winter-buds small, long, acute, with small reddish scales;
    leaves oval or obovate, short-acute or nearly obtuse at the
    apex, rounded or nearly acute at the base, margins closely and
    evenly serrate, thinnish or thickish and somewhat leathery;
    upper surface glabrous, dull green, lower surface paler and
    more or less pubescent; petioles less than one-half inch long,
    stout, tomentose or glabrous; glands two, sometimes more, at
    the base of the leaves.

    Flowers small, appearing before the leaves but the latest
    of any of the hardy plums; borne in three-flowered umbels
    closely set along the rigid branches; calyx-tube campanulate,
    tomentose; petals white, sometimes pinkish, sub-orbicular,
    narrowed into a claw at the base; pedicels short, slender,
    stiff, tomentose.

    Fruit maturing in late summer in Massachusetts; one-half inch
    in diameter, globose, slightly flattened at the ends; cavity
    shallow, borne on a slender pedicel more than one-half inch in
    length, usually dark purple with a heavy bloom but variable,
    sometimes red or less frequently yellow; skin thick, tough and
    acrid; flesh crisp, juicy, sweetish; stone free from the flesh,
    small, turgid, pointed at both ends, cherry-like, acutely
    ridged on one and grooved on the other edge.

_Prunus maritima_, or as it has long been known, the Beach plum, is as
yet hardly grown as a domesticated fruit. It is destined, however, in the
minds of not a few, because of qualities which we shall describe, to play
a more important part in the future of the cultivated plum flora than it
has in the past. It has several valuable characters that should fit it
alike for direct cultivation and for hybridizing with other species. It
is surprising that more has not been done to domesticate the Maritima
plums for they were among the first fruits noticed by early explorers
and have always been used by both Indians and Whites for culinary
purposes. The fact that Domestica plums thrive in their habitat is the
only explanation of the non-amelioration of this plum before this.

September third, 1609, Hudson entered the river bearing his name and
found “a very good harbor, abundance of blue plums, some currants brought
by the natives dried and the country full of great and tall oaks.” The
blue plum was the Maritima; and from Hudson’s time nearly all of the
accounts of the New World given by early explorers mention this plum. It
is probably one of the plums described by Captain John Smith as a cherry
“much like a Damson;” by Edward Winslow in 1621, in a letter to England
to a friend, as one of his “plums of three sorts”; by Francis Higginson
in his _New England’s Plantation_ in 1630; described by Thomas Morton in
1632 in his _New English Canaan_ as having “fruit as bigg as our ordinary
bullis.” John Lawson, one of the first of American naturalists, describes
them rather more fully as follows:[140] “The American Damsons are both
black and white, and about the Bigness of an European Damson. They grow
any where if planted from the Stone or Slip; bear a white blossom, and
are a good fruit. They are found on the Sand-Banks all along the Coast
of America. I have planted several in my Orchard, that came from the
Stone, which thrive well amongst the rest of my Trees. But they never
grow to the Bigness of the other Trees now spoken of. These are plentiful
Bearers.” These are but a few of the many references to the Beach plum
but they are enough to show that the colonists were attracted by this
wild plum found on a long stretch of the Atlantic seaboard—probably the
first fruit to attract attention from Virginia to New England.

To be more explicit as to its range, _Prunus maritima_, in its typical
form, is an inhabitant of the sea beaches and sand dunes from New
Brunswick to the Carolinas, or possibly farther south, growing inland
usually as far as recent ocean soil formations extend. As it leaves the
seaboard marked variations make their appearance, chief of which are,
smaller, more oval, smoother and thinner leaves and smaller fruit. The
species has been reported as an inhabitant of the sands at the head of
Lake Michigan,[141] but the writer, who is well acquainted with this
region, has never seen it there, nor is it to be found in the chief
herbaria of Michigan as having been collected in the state.

In the region where it is found wild the Maritima plum is a rather common
article of trade. The fruit is usually sold by the quart, the price being
five or ten cents, and is used for both dessert and culinary purposes
though for most part for the latter.

The species is one of the most variable of the true plums and there
is, probably must ever be, much disagreement as to its botanical
relationships. Several botanical varieties of _Prunus maritima_ have
already been named and there are yet groups within the species which
seem to be nearly as distinct as those described and possibly worth
distinguishing. Since the variations show in the size, color and edible
qualities of the fruit, as well as in the characters of the plant, it
is to be expected that the species has a horticultural future though
at present it has but one cultivated variety—Bassett. Professor J. W.
Macfarlane of the University of Pennsylvania has shown well the great
range of variations in this plum both from botanical and horticultural
aspects.[142] He holds that these variations are sufficiently distinct
to make many varieties of this plum in the wild, to which DeVries agrees
with the statement that they indicate “the existence of separate races as
elementary species.”[143] The plum which Small has described as _Prunus
gravesii_, to be discussed later, is a marked variation of _Prunus
maritima_.

As it grows on the sea-coast _Prunus maritima_ is a low bush three to six
feet high, occasionally reaching a height of ten or twelve feet. Usually
the plant is straggling but sometimes it is compact or even tree-like.
Inland, on better soils, or under cultivation it makes a rather
handsome dwarf tree. The flowers are borne in great numbers, completely
covering the plant and coming later than most of the plums bloom. The
species bears fruit very abundantly, which is always attractive but of
quite diverse value for food. The fruit varies in size from a half to
three-quarters of an inch in diameter and is almost spherical, though
sometimes oval and with or without a distinct suture. The usual color is
a rich bluish-black with a waxy bloom, but red, yellow, amber and orange
fruits are often found. In taste the Maritima plums range from inedible
to nearly as rich a flavor as is found in the best of the Domestica
plums. Besides variations in the above and other qualities, Macfarlane
calls attention to the range in ripening of the fruit of this plum,
showing that it extends over a period of two months, an exceptionally
wide variation for a wild plant.

This plum has a number of qualities that commend it to the fruit-grower.
Since in the wild it grows on sandy soils it is not likely under
cultivation to make great demands on either the moisture or the fertility
of soils. It is very hardy and very productive and seldom fails to bear.
It seems to be free or nearly so from some of the pests of cultivated
plums. Lastly, the great number of wild varieties of the plums give many
starting points from which to breed cultivated varieties. Two objections
to the wild fruits are that when the fruit is harvested the juice often
exudes from the wound made by the parting from the stem, and secondly,
the secretion of some substance forming a dark colored, hard core in
the pulp which gives a very bitter taste to the fruit. The last defect
is very common in the wild plums and is probably due to the sting of an
insect. Under cultivation it may be possible to obtain fruits free from
these faults.

It would be desirable if some of the characters enumerated above could be
combined with those of other species. Burbank has hybridized the Maritima
plum with other species, with promising results. Of these he writes under
date of December 6, 1909, as follows:

    “I first began raising _Prunus maritima_ about 1887—twenty-two
    years ago—collecting myself and having specimens sent me
    all the way from the coast of Labrador to South Carolina,
    the finest of which were obtained from the eastern coast of
    Massachusetts. Among the seedlings, of which I raised and
    fruited several hundred thousands, were yellow, red, purple
    and almost black ones, early and late, round, oval, oblate and
    flattened, with big stones and little stones, free stone and
    cling stone, and much variety in productiveness and growth
    of the young bushes, but _not one of them_ the first two or
    three generations were very much increased in size—probably
    the largest being about the size of a cranberry or a small
    hazelnut—and none of them of very exceptional quality, though
    their habit of blooming late was a tremendous advantage, as
    they invariably escaped our spring frosts. This, with their
    unusual hardiness induced me to continue experimenting with
    them. Finally after some ten years I obtained a very delicious
    variety, about an inch in length and three-quarters of an
    inch in diameter, tree much increased in size, larger foliage
    and more productive and producing enormous quantities of most
    delicious fruit. From this I raised a great many thousand,
    almost as good and a few of them even _better_, several
    hundred of which have been selected and are now bearing on my
    Sebastopol place. Some of these improved seedling trees grow
    five to ten times as large as the ordinary Maritima, with
    larger leaves and in every possible way improved. My greatest
    success with this species (and one of the most striking
    occurrences in my work with plums) was produced by pollinating
    one of the somewhat improved Maritimas with _Prunus triflora_.

    “The very first generation, a plum was produced which is an
    astonishing grower for a Maritima—almost equal to the Triflora,
    with large, broad glossy foliage of almost the exact shape of
    the Maritima, Maritima blossoms, and fruit weighing nearly
    one-quarter of a pound each, with an improved superior Maritima
    flavor, Maritima pit in form, but enlarged. The most singular
    peculiarity of this plum, which is so enormous, is that the
    trees commence to bloom about with the Triflora and bloom and
    bear fruit all summer, so that blossoms, young fruit and the
    enormous deep red ripening fruit can be seen on the trees at
    the same time.”


=21.= =PRUNUS GRAVESII= Small

    =1.= Small _Torrey Bot. Club Bul._ =24=:44, Pl. 292. 1897. =2.=
    Britton and Brown _N. Am. Trees_ =2=:249. 1897. =3.= Robinson
    and Fernald _Gray’s Man._ Ed. =7=:498. 1908.

    Shrub low, slender, attaining a height of four feet; main
    trunk much branched, with dark, rough bark; branches
    ascending, slender, leafless, unarmed; branchlets of the
    season puberulent. Leaves oval-orbicular, orbicular or
    slightly obovate, rounded, retuse or apiculated at the apex,
    base truncate or at least obtuse, margins sharply serrate or
    crenate-serrate; upper surface sparingly pubescent or glabrous,
    lower surface pubescent, especially on the veins.

    Flowers white, one-half inch broad; borne in two or
    three-flowered, lateral umbels, appearing with the leaves;
    calyx-tube campanulate, pubescent; petals sub-orbicular,
    abruptly narrowed at the base; pedicels stout, stiff, pubescent.

    Fruit maturing in September; globose, one-half inch in
    diameter, nearly black, with a light bloom, acid and
    astringent; stone broadly oval, rounded at the apex, acute at
    the base.

_Prunus gravesii_ is now known only in Connecticut, where it is found
on a gravelly ridge at Groton near Long Island Sound. It grows in the
neighborhood of _Prunus maritima_ to which it is evidently closely
related. Small in describing the species gives the following differences
between the Gravesii and the Maritima plums: (1) _Prunus gravesii_ is
more slender and delicate in habit, and matures its leaves and fruit
earlier in the season. (2) The leaf of _Prunus gravesii_ is small and
sub-orbicular while that of the other is larger and more elongated. (3)
The new species has smaller flowers with sub-orbicular petals while those
of _Prunus maritima_ are broadly obovate and gradually narrowed at the
base. (4) The fruit of _Prunus gravesii_ is smaller and more globose and
has shorter pedicels. (5) The stone is more turgid and is pointed only
at the base; that of _Prunus maritima_ is usually pointed at both ends.
(6) Sprouts arising from the ground do not produce flowers as they
frequently do in the case of _Prunus maritima_.

The cultivation of this plum has not been attempted and as compared with
Maritima it promises little for the fruit-grower.


=22.= =PRUNUS ORTHOSEPALA= Koehne

    =1.= Koehne _Deut. Dend._ 311. 1893. =2.= Sargent _Gar. and
    For._ =7=:184, 187 fig. 1894. =3.= Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._
    1450. 1901.

    Shrub four or five feet high; branches dense and twiggy; stems
    sometimes armed with slender spines; bark separating in large,
    loose scales; branchlets stout, slightly zigzag, reddish-brown
    becoming dark brown.

    Winter-buds obtuse, three-lobed at maturity; leaves
    oblong-ovate, thin and firm, acuminate, long-pointed, two and
    one-half to three inches long, two-thirds inch broad, unequally
    cuneate or rounded at the base; margins closely serrate with
    incurved, calloused or rarely glandular teeth; upper surface
    glabrous, light green, lower surface paler and pilose; petioles
    slender, slightly grooved, puberulous, one-half inch long;
    glands two, large, at the apex of the petiole.

    Flowers appearing after the leaves; borne in three or
    four-flowered fascicles on stout pedicels one-half inch
    long; calyx-tube turbinate; lobes puberulous on the outer
    surface, with thick tomentum, often tipped with red on the
    inner surface; petals narrowly obovate, rounded at the apex,
    narrowing at the base into slender claws, white or tinged with
    pink; stamens orange, exserted; style glabrous, thickened at
    the apex into a truncate stigma.

    Fruit globose, an inch in diameter, deep red with a heavy
    bloom; skin thick; flesh yellow, juicy, of good flavor; stone
    flattened, oval, slightly rugose, deeply grooved on the dorsal
    and ridged on the ventral edge.

The history and habitat of Orthosepala are given by Sargent as follows:
“The history of this plant as I know it, is briefly this: In June, 1880,
Dr. George Engelmann of St. Louis, sent to the Arnold Arboretum a package
of seeds marked ‘Prunus, sp. southern Texas.’ Plants were raised from
these seeds and in 1888, or earlier, they flowered and produced fruit,
which showed that they belonged to a distinct and probably undescribed
species. A name, however, was not proposed for it, and in 1888, probably,
plants or seeds were sent to Herr Spath, of the Rixdorf Nurseries, near
Berlin, where this plum was found in flower by Dr. Emil Koehne, who has
described it under the name of _Prunus orthosepala_.”

Of the affinity of this species Sargent says: “_Prunus orthosepala_ is a
true plum, rather closely related to _Prunus hortulana_, from which it
can be distinguished by the smaller number of glands of the petioles,
by the eglandular calyx-lobes, the dark colored fruit and smoother
stone.” As the writer has seen this plum growing in the Arnold Arboretum,
Jamaica Plains, Massachusetts, and the City parks at Rochester, New
York, it seems well worth cultivating. Mr. J. W. Kerr writes of it as
follows:

    “I have _P. orthosepala_ fruiting here, and with me
    its fruit is exceptionally fine in quality, sparingly
    produced—attributable I believe to the fact that no variety
    stands near enough to it for proper inter-pollination. The
    trees are rather dwarfish in habit, close-headed, with fine
    clean foliage. The fruit is globular in form; size equal to
    fair specimens of Hawkeye or Wyant; skin a greenish-yellow,
    almost entirely covered with deep red.”

W. F. Wight of the United States Department of Agriculture has collected
specimens of a cultivated plum, taken from the wild, locally known as the
Laire, in Rooks and neighboring counties in Kansas, with foliage very
similar to _Prunus orthosepela_. While the identity of Laire with the
species under discussion cannot be established at this time, the reported
source of the seeds, “southern Texas,” from which _Prunus orthosepela_
was grown may be an error.


=23.= =PRUNUS GRACILIS= Engelmann and Gray

    =1.= Engelmann and Gray _Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist._ =5=:243. 1845.
    =2.= Torrey _Pac. R. Rpt._ =4=:83. 1854. =3.= Britton and Brown
    _Ill. Fl._ =2=:249, fig. 1897.

    _P. chicasa_ var. _normalis._ =4.= Torrey and Gray _Fl. N. Am._
    =1=:407. 1840.

    _P. normalis_ =5.= Small _Fl. S. E. U. S._ 572. 1903.

    Shrub low, attaining a height of five or six feet; branches
    many, straggling, more or less spiny; branchlets at first
    densely tomentose or soft-pubescent, becoming glabrous; leaves
    small, ovate-lanceolate or oval, margins finely and evenly
    serrate, rather thick, texture harsh and firm; upper surface
    dark green, glabrous or nearly so at maturity, lower surface
    paler, soft-pubescent becoming nearly glabrous; petiole short
    and stout.

    Flowers white, small, appearing before the leaves; borne in
    sessile, several-flowered umbels; pedicels short, slender,
    soft-pubescent.

    Fruit globose or oval, very small, not more than one-half inch
    in diameter, variable in color, mostly in shades of red; stone
    turgid, nearly orbicular, pointed at both ends.

_Prunus gracilis_ is found in dry, sandy soils from southern Kansas and
western Arkansas to central Texas. It grows most abundantly and thrives
best in Oklahoma, a fact which leads Waugh to call it the “Oklahoma”
plum. All who know the species agree that it is a near approach to
Maritima in many of its characters. This plum is very variable and
some of its forms seem not to have been well studied. As a fruit plant
Gracilis is hardly known in cultivation though Torrey says it is
cultivated in the region of its habitat under the name Prairie Cherry.
The wild fruit is used more or less locally and is sometimes offered
for sale in the markets of western towns. The quality is about the same
as that of the wild Americanas and under cultivation would probably
improve. The small size of plant and fruit are the most unpromising
characters though the species is also much subject to black-knot.


=24.= =PRUNUS RIVULARIS= Scheele

    =1.= Scheele _Linnaea_ =21=:594. 1848. =2.= Gray _Pl. Wright._
    =1=:67. 1852. =3.= Hall _Pl. Texas._ 9. 1873. =4.= _Coulter
    Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._ =2=:101. 1891. =5.= Waugh _Bot. Gaz._
    =26=:50-52. 1898. =6.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fr._ 223. 1898.

    Shrub three to seven feet high; branches angular, smooth,
    shining, ash-colored, rough; lenticels small, crowded;
    leaves oblong-ovate or sometimes ovate, rarely lanceolate,
    apex acute, margins coarsely or doubly serrate, glabrous
    above and sparingly pubescent below; petioles glandular,
    grooved, pubescent; flowers in lateral umbels, in pairs or
    several-flowered; fruit about one-half inch in diameter,
    oblong-oval, cherry-red; skin thick, smooth and tough, acid.

The preceding description is largely compiled from the authors given in
the references, the writer having seen only herbarium specimens. The
species is included here largely upon the authority of Professor C. S.
Sargent of the Arnold Arboretum and W. F. Wight, who know the plant as
described by Scheele in the field. Gray described the plant as “verging
to Americana.” Bailey says “it evidently bears the same relation to
_Prunus americana_ that _Prunus watsoni_ does to the Chickasaw plum.”
Waugh is “convinced that _Prunus rivularis_ Scheele is nothing more than
one of the more distinct sub-divisions of the multiform _hortulana_
group.”[144] T. V. Munson writes me that the Waylandi plums belong in
this species. My own opinion is, from the herbarium specimens examined,
from correspondence and conversation with those who have seen the plant
in the field, that Scheele’s species is a good one and quite distinct
from the species named by Bailey, Waugh and Munson as allied to it. It is
to be looked for along the streams and bottom-lands in the neighborhood
of San Antonio and New Braunfels, Texas. The plum is locally known as
the Creek plum and in common with other plums is gathered for home
consumption. The species seems to offer but few possibilities for the
fruit-grower.




CHAPTER II

PLUM CULTURE.


Ten states produced over 82 per ct. of the plum crop of the United States
in 1899. The census of 1900 shows that in the preceding year the total
crop in the country was 8,764,032 bushels of which California, Oregon,
New York, Washington, Michigan, Iowa, Texas, Arkansas, Ohio and Kansas,
named in order of yield, produced 7,429,248 bushels. All other states
yielded 1,334,784 bushels. Of these ten states, three, California, Oregon
and Washington, holding first, second and fourth places in production,
use by far the greater parts of their crops for prunes. Four others,
Iowa, Texas, Arkansas and Kansas, grow the native and Triflora varieties
almost exclusively. New York with a crop of 313,668 bushels in 1899,
Michigan with 213,682 bushels the same year and Ohio with 81,435 bushels,
grew the main crop of Domesticas for the states in which plums are not
made into prunes.

At the end of the Nineteenth Century the plum ranked third in commercial
value among orchard products, being surpassed by the apple and the
peach. The increase in number of trees and bushels of fruit for the
whole country for the decade ending with 1899 was remarkable, being for
trees 334.9 per ct. and for bushels of fruit 243.1 per ct. These great
increases were due to very large planting of plums for prunes on the
Pacific Coast and to the widespread distribution during these ten years
of native and Triflora varieties. It is very doubtful if the percentage
of increase has been nearly so great during the present decade. It is
likely that the development of rapid transportation and refrigerator
service between the great plum-growing region of the far West and the
markets of the East has caused a decrease in trees and production in the
eastern states.

Plum-growing, as with the growing of all fruits, is confined to
localities geologically, climatically and commercially adapted to the
industry. If we take New York as an example we find that plums are grown
largely only in ten of the sixty-one counties, according to the census
of 1900. These with the number of trees in each are as follows: Niagara
184,133, Ontario 92,917, Seneca 59,205, Monroe 57,246, Schuyler 48,336,
Orleans 41,985, Yates 32,742, Albany 32,373, Erie 30,281, Wayne 30,047.
Over 62 per ct. of all the trees in the State are in these counties and
probably they produce more than 90 per ct. of the plums sent to market.

A canvass of the acreage of four hundred plum-growers in New York shows
that the following in order named are the leading commercial varieties:
Bradshaw, including Niagara, which is identical, Reine Claude including
its several near variations, Italian Prune, German Prune, Lombard,
Shropshire, Grand Duke, Washington and Gueii. Abundance and Burbank
are as widely distributed as any of these, chiefly owing to the zeal
with which nurserymen have sold these varieties, but are seldom grown
exclusively in commercial plantations, and their popularity is now
on the wane as is also the case with Red June which has been largely
planted. Varieties of native plums are hardly grown in New York though
now and then they are found in home collections and there are a few small
commercial plantations of them.

The fruit of the native and Triflora plums is so inferior to that of the
Domestica sorts for market and domestic purposes, that varieties of these
are not likely to take the place of the Domestica plums. Producers and
purchasers are now familiar with the possibilities of the natives and of
the Orientals and have not been greatly attracted by them in New York. It
is true, however, that the natives have been chiefly represented by Wild
Goose and the Trifloras by Abundance and Burbank—scarcely the best that
these groups of plums can produce. It is true, too, that the varieties
have been greatly over-praised and that they now suffer from the
reaction. Yet the Domesticas command the market and their reliableness
in the orchard gives them a popularity in this region which other plums
cannot for a long while trench upon.

This brings us to a discussion of the conditions under which plums are
now grown in North America and more particularly in New York. Of these,
climate, with this fruit, should be first discussed, outranking all
others in importance.


CLIMATE

Climatic conditions determine the culture of the plum not only for a
region but for a locality; not only as to whether it is possible to grow
plums at all but as to whether this fruit can be grown with reasonable
prospects of commercial success in competition with other localities.
The constituents of climate which are important in plum-growing are
temperature, rainfall and air currents, the last two being largely
dependent upon the first. The relationship existing between plums and
these factors of climate are fairly well known for they have received
attention from the very beginning of plum culture.

There are four phases of temperature that need to be considered in
order to get a clear insight into the climatic conditions which govern
production of fruit crops. These are, the daily, monthly and annual
changes in temperature and the extremes in temperature. Of these the
daily and annual changes are of little importance. All plants are very
adaptable to daily variations in climate and are little affected by them.
Annual variations are shown by statements of the annual mean temperatures
but such statements are of small value to fruit-growers as they may be
the result of averaging very divergent temperatures or temperatures very
close together. The monthly mean, however, is a very fair criterion of
climate for fruit-growing, especially when given with the amount and
distribution of rainfall.

But far more important than any of the above phases are the extremes
in temperature and more particularly of cold. A plant can not be grown
profitably where the temperature, even occasionally, falls below the
point where winter-killing results to tree or bud, or where the blossom
is injured by frost. Extremes of heat are disastrous usually only when
long continued. For each fruit, too, there must be a total amount of heat
available to carry it from the setting of the fruit to maturity, in which
respect varieties of any fruit may differ materially. Of the injurious
effects and of the necessary amounts of heat, however, we know but little.

These general considerations of temperature lead us to their application
to the plum and especially to a discussion of the most important of the
several factors—hardiness.

Hardiness to cold, a matter of prime importance with all fruits, is
especially so with the plum because of the many different species, each
with its own capacity for withstanding cold. As the different species
are taken from their natural habitat to other regions, there to become
acclimatized, and as new forms originate by hybridization, the matter
becomes more complicated and more important. Waugh[145] has investigated
the hardiness of plums and we publish a table given by him showing the
hardiness of representative varieties of the species most generally
cultivated. We have taken the liberty of adding a few plums not given in
the original table and have also made some changes in the nomenclature of
the groups.


TABLE SHOWING THE HARDINESS OF REPRESENTATIVE VARIETIES OF PLUMS AT
VARIOUS PLACES.

  h—hardy; hh—half-hardy; t—tender.

  ==================+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   | W.|   |   |   |   |   |
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   | W |   | M
                    |   |   | I |   | C | N | N |   |   |   | i |   | i
                    |   | I | l |   | o | e | e | V | O |   | s |   | n
                    |   | n | l | K | l | b | w | e | n |   | c |   | n
                    |   | d | i | a | o | r |   | r | t | M | o |   | e
                    | O | i | n | n | r | a | Y | m | a | a | n | I | s
                    | h | a | o | s | a | s | o | o | r | i | s | o | o
                    | i | n | i | a | d | k | r | n | i | n | i | w | t
                    | o | a | s | s | o | a | k | t | o | e | n | a | a
  ------------------+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---
  Americana Plums:  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
     De Soto        | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h
     Hawkeye        | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h
     Wolf           | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  Domestica Plums:  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
     Lombard        | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h |hh
     Reine Claude   | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h |hh | h |hh | h | t
     Bradshaw       | h | h | t |hh | h | h | h |hh |hh |hh |hh |hh | t
     Arctic         | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h |hh
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  Hortulana Plums:  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
     Moreman        | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | ? | h |hh | t
     Golden Beauty  | ? | h | h | h | h | ? | h |h? | ? | ? |hh | h | t
     Wayland        | h | h | h | h | h | ? | h | h | ? | ? |hh |hh | t
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  Insititia Plums:  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
     Damsons        | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h |hh
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  Munsoniana Plums: |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
     Pottawattamie  | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h |hh | t | h | h | h
     Newman         | h | h | h | h | ? | ? | h | ? | t | t |hh | t | t
     Robinson       | h | h | h | h | ? | ? | h | ? | t | t | t |hh | t
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  Nigra Plums       | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  The Simon Plum    | h | h | h | h |hh |hh | h |hh |hh | t | t | t | t
                    |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
  Triflora Plums:   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
     Abundance      | h | h | h | h |hh | h | h | h | h |hh |hh |hh | t
     Burbank        | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h | h |hh |hh |hh | t
     Satsuma        |hh | h | h |hh | t | h |hh |hh |hh | t | t |hh | t
     Kelsey         | t | ? | t |hh | t | t | t | t | t | t | t | t | t
  ==================+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===+===

A few general statements in addition to the above table will help
to make plain the comparative hardiness of the different groups of
cultivated plums. The Nigras may be rated as the hardiest of the plums
to be considered though the Americanas are but slightly less hardy.
The plums of these species are the hardiest of our tree-fruits and are
able to resist nearly as much cold as any other cultivated plant. The
Insititias, as represented by the Damsons, at least, come next hardiest
after the above species, with varieties of Domestica, as Arctic, Lombard
and Voronesh, nearly as hardy. So far as resistance to cold is concerned
the Domestica plums as a class are less hardy than the apple, ranking in
this respect with the pear. Of the Domesticas the Reine Claude plums are
as tender to cold as any though some consider Bradshaw as more tender.
Between these last sorts and the hardiest varieties there is a great
range in capacity to endure cold, as would be expected with so large
a number of varieties originating in widely separated climates. The
Triflora plums vary more in hardiness than any other of the cultivated
species. Speaking very generally they are less hardy than the Domesticas,
the hardiest sorts, Burbank and Abundance, being somewhat hardier than
the peach, while the tenderest varieties, of which Kelsey is probably
most tender, are distinctly less hardy than the peach. Of the remaining
plums, the Hortulana, Munsoniana and Watsoni groups, there are great
diversities in opinion as to hardiness. Probably all of the varieties in
these last groups are as hardy as the peach with a few sorts in each more
hardy than the peach. It is to be expected from the more northern range
of the wild prototypes that the Hortulana and Watsoni plums are somewhat
hardier than _Prunus munsoniana_.

The rainfall is of comparatively small concern to plum-growers in
America, since, with now and then an exception, in eastern America it
is sufficient under proper cultivation, and on the Pacific Coast the
crop is largely grown under irrigation. Summarized statements of annual
rainfall are of little or no importance since almost all depends upon the
distribution of the amount throughout the year and upon the manner in
which it falls. Monthly and seasonal “means” of precipitation, as in the
case of temperature, may be of considerable importance in determining the
desirability of a locality for plums.

Air currents are of local or regional occurrence and though not often the
determinant of profitable culture of plums have sometimes been important
factors in choosing a location to grow this fruit. The occurrence,
direction, moisture condition and temperature are the attributes of air
currents usually considered. The failure of many plums to grow in the
prairie region of the Mississippi Valley and the Great Plains is no doubt
due in some measure to winter winds. The problem of varietal adaptation
is more or less complicated in any region by the nature of the air
currents.

An extremity of any of the constituents of what we call “weather”
endangers the plum crop at blossoming time. In New York stresses of
weather are probably the predominating causes of the non-setting of fruit
on plum trees which bear an abundance of blossoms. This is well shown in
a study of the relations of weather to the setting of fruit made by the
New York Agricultural Experiment Station in which it is held that several
phases of weather at blossoming time cause the loss of plum crops.[146]
Thus late frosts, wet weather, low temperature, strong winds and wide
daily ranges in temperature were factors in the loss of fruit crops
in all of the failures during a period of twenty-five years. Quite as
significant was the fact that in all of the years during this period when
there was sunshine and warm, dry weather during blossoming time there
were good crops of fruit.

Locations for growing the different varieties of plums are selected with
reference to general and local climate. As regards general climate,
latitude, altitude and proximity to large bodies of water are the chief
determining characters; as regards local climate, the lay of the land
has most to do as a determinant. Again, varieties are selected with
reference to time of blooming, that they may escape in some degree
injurious climatal agencies. Lastly, varieties are selected having
greater capacity, from one cause or another, to withstand injurious
weather. With all varieties it is found that cultural treatment to induce
strong vitality helps a tree to withstand stresses of harmful weather at
blossoming time.

The above considerations show that the blossoming dates of plums should
be known for the proper culture of this fruit. In the following table
averages of the blooming dates of varieties of plums for the eight years
just past, 1902 to 1909, inclusive, are given.

In making use of these dates, consideration must be given to the
environment of the orchards at Geneva. The latitude of the Smith
Astronomical Observatory, a quarter of a mile from the Station orchards
is 42° 52′ 46.2″; the altitude of the orchards is from five hundred to
five hundred and twenty-five feet above the sea level; the soil is a
stiff and rather cold clay; the orchards lie about a mile west of Seneca
Lake, a body of water forty miles in length and from one to three and
one-half miles in width and more than six hundred feet deep. The lake has
frozen over but a few times since the region was settled, over a hundred
years ago, and has a very beneficial influence on the adjacent country in
lessening the cold of winter and the heat of summer, and in preventing
early blooming.

The dates are those of full bloom. They were taken from trees grown under
normal conditions as to pruning, distance apart, and as to all other
factors which might influence the blooming period.

An inspection of the table shows that there is a variation of several
days between the time of full bloom of the different varieties of the
same species. These differences can be taken advantage of in selecting
sorts to avoid injury from frost. The same table shows the ripening
season of the plums growing on the Station grounds. Now and then the late
and very late plums given in the table may be caught by fall frosts in
the colder parts of New York or in regions having a similar climate.


TABLE SHOWING BLOOMING DATES AND SEASON OF RIPENING.

The “blooming date” is that of full bloom.

Under season of ripening “very early” is from July 15 to August 10;
“early,” August 10 to August 20; “mid-season,” August 20 to September
10; “late,” September 10 to September 20; “very late,” September 20 to
October 1.

  ================+=========================+============================
                  |      Blooming date      |     Season of ripening
  ----------------+-------------------------+-----+-----+------+----+----
                  |           May           |     |     |      |    |
                  |-------------------------|Very |Early| Mid- |Late|Very
                  |1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 2|early|     |season|    |late
                  |2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4|     |     |      |    |
  ----------------+-------------------------+-----+-----+------+----+----
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. americana_: |                         |     |     |      |    |
    De Soto       |            *            |     |     |   *  |    |
    Hawkeye       |          *              |     |     |   *  |    |
    New Ulm       |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Ocheeda       |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Oren          |            *            |     |     |   *  |    |
    Rollingstone  |            *            |     |     |      |    |
    Stoddard      |          *              |     |     |   *  |    |
    Surprise      |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Wolf          |            *            |     |     |   *  |    |
    Wood          |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Wyant         |              *          |     |     |   *  |    |
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. cerasifera_:|                         |     |     |      |    |
    De Caradeuc   |*                        |  *  |     |      |    |
    Golden Cherry |*                        |  *  |     |      |    |
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. domestica_: |                         |     |     |      |    |
    Agen          |    *                    |     |     |      |  * |
    Altham        |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    American      |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Arch Duke     |          *              |     |     |   *  |    |
    Autumn Compote|    *                    |     |     |      |  * |
    Arctic        |        *                |     |     |      |    |
    Bavay         |    *                    |     |     |      |    |  *
    Béjonnièrs    |              *          |     |     |      |  * |
    Belgian Purple|  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Belle         |                *        |     |     |      |  * |
    Bradshaw      |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Bryanston     |*                        |     |     |   *  |    |
    Chambourcy    |        *                |     |     |      |    |  *
    Champion      |      *                  |     |  *  |      |    |
    Cling Stem    |      *                  |     |     |      |  * |
    Clyman        |  *                      |  *  |     |      |    |
    Czar          |    *                    |  *  |     |      |    |
    Dawson        |              *          |  *  |     |      |    |
    Diamond       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Doretts       |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Duane         |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Early Rivers  |  *                      |     |  *  |      |    |
    Early Orleans |                         |     |     |   *  |    |
    Early Royal   |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Early Tours   |          *              |  *  |     |      |    |
    Empire        |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Englebert     |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Esjum Erik    |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Field         |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Freeman       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Furst         |                  *      |     |     |      |  * |
    German Prune  |          *              |     |     |      |  * |
    Giant         |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    G. No. 4      |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Golden Drop   |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Golden Gage   |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Goliath       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Grand Duke    |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Gueii         |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Guthrie Late  |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Hand          |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Harriet       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Hector        |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Hudson        |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Hungarian     |                  *      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Ickworth      |            *            |     |     |   *  |    |
    Imperial      |                         |     |     |      |    |
     Epineuse     |          *              |     |     |   *  |    |
    Imperial Gage |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Italian Prune |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    Jefferson     |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Kirke         |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Lafayette     |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    Large English |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    Late Orleans  |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Late          |                         |     |     |      |    |
     Muscatelle   |          *              |     |     |      |  * |
    Lombard       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Lucombe       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Middleburg    |  *                      |     |     |      |    |  *
    Miller No. 1  |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Miller Superb |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Missouri      |                         |     |     |      |    |
     Green Gage   |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Morocco       |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    Mottled Prune |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Newark        |      *                  |     |  *  |      |    |
    Nicholas      |    *                    |  *  |     |      |    |
    Ottoman       |                         |     |     |      |    |
     Seedling     |      *                  |     |  *  |      |    |
    Oullins       |      *                  |     |  *  |      |    |
    Pacific       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Palatine      |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Paul Early    |  *                      |     |  *  |      |    |
    Pearl         |          *              |     |     |   *  |    |
    Peters        |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Pond          |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    Purple Gage   |            *            |     |     |   *  |    |
    Quackenboss   |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Red Date      |            *            |     |     |   *  |    |
    Sannois       |      *                  |     |     |      |    |
    Saunders      |      *                  |     |  *  |      |    |
    Sheldrake     |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Shipper       |      *                  |     |     |      |  * |
    Smith Orleans |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Spaulding     |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Stanton       |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    St. Catherine |            *            |     |     |      |  * |
    Sugar         |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Tennant       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Tobias Gage   |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Tragedy       |  *                      |     |  *  |      |    |
    Transparent   |    *                    |     |     |      |  * |
    Ungarish      |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    Union         |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Uryany        |  *                      |     |     |      |  * |
    Victoria      |  *                      |     |     |      |    |
    Voronesh      |*                        |     |     |   *  |    |
    Warner        |    *                    |     |     |      |    |  *
    Washington    |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    Wyzerka       |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Yellow Egg    |    *                    |     |     |      |  * |
    Yellow Gage   |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
    York State    |                         |     |     |      |    |
     Prune        |            *            |     |     |      |  * |
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. hortulana_: |                         |     |     |      |    |
    Golden Beauty |                      *  |     |     |      |    |  *
    Wayland       |                        *|     |     |      |    |  *
    World Beater  |                      *  |     |     |      |    |  *
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  HYBRIDS:        |                         |     |     |      |    |
    America       |          *              |     |  *  |      |    |
    Ames          |          *              |     |     |   *  |    |
    Apple         |    *                    |     |  *  |      |    |
    Bartlett      |    *                    |  *  |     |      |    |
    Climax        |  *                      |  *  |     |      |    |
    Downing       |                  *      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Golden        |      *                  |     |     |   *  |    |
    Hammer        |                *        |     |     |   *  |    |
    Japex         |  *                      |  *  |     |      |    |
    Juicy         |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Marianna      |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Milton        |                  *      |  *  |     |      |    |
    Shiro         |*                        |  *  |     |      |    |
    Sophie        |                    *    |     |     |      |    |
    Wickson       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. insititia:_ |                         |     |     |      |    |
    Black Bullace |        *                |     |     |      |    |  *
    Crittenden    |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    Freestone     |                  *      |     |     |   *  |    |
    French        |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    Frogmore      |        *                |     |     |      |  * |
    King of       |                         |     |     |      |    |
     Damsons      |          *              |     |     |      |  * |
    Late Mirabelle|                  *      |     |     |      |    |
    Mirabelle     |        *                |     |     |   *  |    |
    Reine des     |                         |     |     |      |    |
     Mirabelles   |          *              |     |     |      |  * |
    Shropshire    |              *          |     |     |      |  * |
    Sweet Damson  |          *              |     |     |   *  |    |
    White Bullace |            *            |     |     |      |    |
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. hortulana   |                         |     |     |      |    |
   mineri:_       |                         |     |     |      |    |
    Forest Garden |                  *      |     |     |      |  * |
    Maquoketa     |              *          |     |     |      |  * |
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. munsoniana:_|                         |     |     |      |    |
    Arkansas      |                *        |     |  *  |      |    |
    Newman        |                  *      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Poole Pride   |                        *|     |  *  |      |    |
    Pottawattamie |                    *    |     |  *  |      |    |
    Robinson      |                *        |     |     |      |    |
    Wild Goose    |                  *      |  *  |     |      |    |
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. nigra:_     |                         |     |     |      |    |
    Cheney        |    *                    |     |     |   *  |    |
                  |                         |     |     |      |    |
  _P. triflora:_  |                         |     |     |      |    |
    Abundance     |      *                  |     |  *  |      |    |
    Burbank       |  *                      |     |     |   *  |    |
    Chabot        |    *                    |     |     |      |  * |
    Engre         |  *                      |     |  *  |      |    |
    Earliest      |                         |     |     |      |    |
     of All       |*                        |     |  *  |      |    |
    Georgeson     |*                        |     |  *  |      |    |
    Hale          |*                        |     |  *  |      |    |
    Long Fruit    |      *                  |  *  |     |      |    |
    Maru          |  *                      |     |  *  |      |    |
    Ogon          |  *                      |     |     |      |    |
  ----------------+-------------------------+-----+-----+------+----+----


THE POLLINATION OF PLUMS.

One of the discouragements in plum-growing is the uncertainty which
attends the setting of the fruit in some varieties even though the trees
bear an abundance of blossoms. Blooming, the prelude of fruiting, had
little significance to the fruit-grower until the discovery was made that
many varieties of several fruits were unable to fertilize themselves and
that failures of fruit crops were often due to the planting of infertile
varieties. Investigations as to the self-sterility of pears, plums and
grapes have shown blossoming-time to be one of the most important life
periods of these fruits. The knowledge obtained by workers in this field
has to some degree modified the planting of all orchard-fruits and of
none more than of the plums. Indeed, it is held by many that it is hardly
safe to plant any excepting the Domestica and Insititia plums without
provision for cross-pollination.

A variety is in need of cross-pollination when the pollen from its
own blossoms does not fecundate the ovules of the variety. There is a
delicate and complicated procession during the process of fruit formation
and the life of the fruit may be jeopardized by any one of a number
of external or internal influences. These deleterious influences are
most often unfavorable weather or defects in the reproductive organs
of the plants themselves. Of the latter, in the plum there are several
rather common ones which cause self-sterility, as impotency of pollen,
insufficiency of pollen, defective pistils and difference in the time
between the maturity of the pollen and the receptiveness of the stigmas.

It is held that the main cause of the infertility in plums is impotency
of pollen on the pistils of the same variety. The pollen may be produced
in abundance, be perfect as regards appearance, and potent on the pistils
of other varieties but wholly fail to fecundate the ovaries of the
variety from which it came. The most marked examples of such impotency
are to be found in the native plums though the Triflora sorts are
generally accredited with being largely self-sterile and the Domesticas
somewhat so. The proof offered to show the impotency of plums is for most
part the records of fruit setting under covered blossoms. In this method
of testing the impotency of pollen there are several sources of error
and the figures given by experimenters probably greatly exaggerate the
infertility of plums, but since the experience of plum-growers generally
affirms the results in some measure it is well to hold that the native
plums at least should be so planted as to secure cross-pollination. It is
doubtful if the Domestica and Triflora plums are self-sterile and yet
the question is an open one as regards some varieties of these species.

There is great difference in the quantity of pollen produced by the
several groups of plums but it is very doubtful if insufficiency of
pollen is a factor of any considerable importance in the self-sterility
of this fruit. Yet the matter is worth attention because of its bearing
upon the selection of pollinizers. Of the several botanic groups,
speaking somewhat generally, the Americanas and Nigras bear most
pollen; the Munsoniana plums are abundant pollen bearers; the Trifloras
seldom show a shortage but bear rather less than the others named; the
Domesticas produce pollen abundantly; while the hybrid groups are the
most capricious of all the plums in this respect, some varieties bearing
much and others but little pollen. Probably the amount of pollen which
the flowers of any tree produce is somewhat modified by the climate in
which the tree is growing, by the weather and by the vigor of the tree.

Waugh[147] and Goff[148] have shown that self-sterile plums often have
abnormal pistils or pistils too weak for the development of fruits. Not
infrequently flowers of the plum are without pistils, as occasionally,
but less rarely, occurs with the stamens and petals. These abnormalities
cannot be very general causes of self-sterility in plums, however, as
varieties, or even trees, cannot often be found which are not fruitful
if other varieties are growing near them. It is very doubtful if even
so much as fifty per ct. of abnormal flowers, seriously jeopardizes a
plum crop, as the trees bear, if they blossom at all, several times as
many flowers as they can mature plums. But a high percentage of abnormal
flowers nearly always indicates a general weakness in fruit-setting.

Another cause often assigned for the failure of plums to set fruit is
the difference in time of maturity of stamens and pistils. It is claimed
that when these organs do not mature simultaneously the plums do not set
unless pollen is supplied from some other source. The task of taking
notes at blossoming time on more than three hundred varieties of plums on
the grounds of this Station has given abundant opportunity to observe the
comparative degrees of maturity of pistils and stamens in varieties of
this fruit. In general the pistils mature first, often three or four days
before the stamens. Rarely the pollen is disgorged before the stigmas
are receptive. But stigmas remain receptive, weather conditions being
favorable, for several days and the pollen from all anthers is not shed
at once and is produced with such seeming prodigality as to almost insure
the retaining of a sufficient amount to pollinate late-maturing stigmas.
In view of these considerations, premature or retarded ripening of either
pistils or stamens does not seem of great significance in the setting of
fruit.

From the statements just made it may be seen that the main cause of the
failures to set fruit when trees bloom freely must be ascribed to the
failure of pollen to fertilize the pistils of the flowers of the same
variety. The solution of the problem of self-sterility in the main, then,
is to so plant that varieties will be mutually cross-fertilized. In the
selection of varieties for such cross-pollination two factors must be
considered, simultaneity of blossoming and sexual affinity.

It is evident, if cross-fertilization is to play an important part in
fruit-growing, in planting to secure it kinds must be chosen which come
into blossom at the same time as those they are expected to fertilize.
The table on pages 106 to 109 shows the sorts that bloom together or
nearly enough so to make cross-pollination possible. It will be found
upon examining the table that, under normal conditions and during the
average season, varieties of any one species overlap sufficiently for
the above purpose unless it be the very early and very late varieties.
Variations due to locality and to season must be expected but within the
bounds of New York these will be slight. If the table is used for other
regions than New York it must be borne in mind that the farther south,
the longer the blossoming season; the farther north, the shorter the
season. Properly interpreted the table of dates should be a useful guide
as to the simultaneity of blooming.

Varieties of plums seem to have sexual affinities. That is, some
varieties will fertilize each other very well and some will not, even
though they belong to the same species. There seems to be little definite
knowledge as to the sexual affinities of plums and it is not, therefore,
possible to lay down exact rules for the selection of pollinizers for
individual varieties. In the current discussions of cross-pollination
it is probable that the importance of “affinities” is over-rated, and
yet the subject is worthy of consideration. Waugh and Kerr have given
this subject considerable attention for native and Japanese plums and
have recommended a list of pollinizers for the several species.[149]
The Domesticas and Insititias, the above writers hold, are best
cross-pollinated by varieties from the same species if cross-pollination
is essential.

The subject cannot be closed without the expression of the opinion
that the lack of cross-pollination as a cause of the uncertainties in
the setting of fruit has been over estimated in the planting of plum
orchards. This expression of doubt is made because there are serious
disadvantages in the planting of mixed orchards of any fruit and the
question as to whether these do not outweigh the advantages must ever be
considered.


LOCATIONS AND SOILS FOR PLUMS.

The plum is comparatively easy to suit in the matter of location of
orchards, as is shown by the exceedingly wide range of this fruit in New
York. Plums are grown with eminent success on the elevated and sloping
lands adjoining the Great Lakes, the Central Lakes of western New York
and on both banks of the Hudson. Unquestionably there are many other
localities than those named about the waterways of the State and also
upon the elevated lands in the western interior formed by morainic hills,
and upon the slopes of the mountains in eastern New York. Upon any land
in the State suited to general farm crops, where the severity of winter
is tempered by the lay of the land or proximity to water, and where late
spring frosts are infrequent, plums may be grown. The early blooming
plums, the Trifloras in particular, require more or less consideration
as to the slope of land, a northern exposure to retard blooming-time
being best. With other species the direction of the slope makes little
difference, though a slope for air and water drainage is always better
than a dead level.

The plum is now thriving in New York, and in the country at large, in a
great diversity of soils. The chief requisite for the genus in general
seems to be good drainage. Given this condition, some sort of plums can
be grown on almost any soil found in America not wholly prohibitive of
plant growth. Plums can be found which will stand rather more water than
any other of the tree-fruits, and since plums can be grafted on several
stocks, each having its own adaptation to soils, the adaptability of the
genus is still further increased. Yet the several species have somewhat
decided soil preferences.

The Domesticas and Insititias, the plums now almost exclusively grown
in New York, grow most satisfactorily, all things considered, on rich
clay loams. The plum orchards in this State on such soils contain the
largest and most productive trees and produce the choicest fruit from
the standpoints of size, appearance and quality. Yet there are exceptions
in which exceedingly fine Domestica plums are grown on light loams. The
Station collection of about two hundred varieties of European plums is
on stiff clay, but well drained, and the results are uniformly good.
The Americanas and Nigras grow very well on much the same soils as the
European sorts, speaking from the experience on the grounds of this
Station, for varieties of these species are not generally grown in New
York. Beyond question the Triflora plums, next most widely grown in
New York after the Domesticas, are giving the best results on light
soils—those most favorable for the peach. The ideal soil for this species
is a sandy or gravelly loam but they are growing well on soils having
either more sand or more clay than the ideal types. The Hortulana and
Munsoniana plums incline to the comparatively light types of soils named
as being best for the Trifloras rather than to the heavier lands on which
the European plums are most commonly grown.

Plum-growers are well aware of the necessity of good drainage for this
fruit but few seem to realize the importance of warmth in a plum soil.
The plum, in common with all stone-fruits, grows best, as a rule, on
soils having the power to absorb and retain heat, or if the soil have not
these properties the location and the cultivation should be such as to
provide as far as possible for “bottom heat.”


STOCKS AND PROPAGATION.

A discussion of stocks naturally follows one of soils, for the two are
intimately related. The plum can be successfully grown on various stocks
and for this reason the practices of nurserymen are diverse, depending
upon the cost of the stocks, the ease with which they may be budded or
grafted and the adaptability of the tree to the stocks. Unfortunately
there is little experimental data to show which of the several stocks is
best for the different plums and since growers seldom know what stocks
their plums are growing upon they can give almost no information as to
the desirability of propagating on this stock or that. Nurserymen know
the stocks best adapted to their purpose and from them we have sought
information.

A letter of inquiry sent to representative nurserymen in all parts of
the United States as to the relative merits of the several stocks for
the different species of plums shows that plum propagators in different
regions use somewhat different stocks. In New England and the North
Atlantic States, the Myrobalan seems to be almost the universal choice,
the exception being a few propagators who claim that the Japanese sorts
should be worked on the peach, especially for sandy soils, and a few
others who are using Americana stocks for the American species.

In the Atlantic states south of Pennsylvania and in the Gulf states to
the Mississippi the preferences are very diverse, with the majority of
the nurserymen in this region favoring the peach, Myrobalan following as
a close second choice. For light soils it would seem that the peach is
always to be preferred for this great region. The opinions expressed by
the veteran plum-grower, J. W. Kerr of Denton, Maryland, on this subject
are worth printing in full. He says:

    “In this locality for all varieties of the Domesticas that
    unite thoroughly with it, the peach is preferable as a stock.
    There are, however, a good many varieties of Domesticas that
    refuse to unite firmly with the peach. For these the Marianna
    or the Myrobalan gives best results. For all of the Japanese
    plums the peach has proved most satisfactory, when the trees
    are propagated by root-grafting on the whole-root plan. Nearly
    forty years of experimenting and testing stocks of various
    kinds gives me a decided preference for the peach as a stock
    for native plums; results doubtless would be different in
    colder climates and soils than this, but long and critical
    experience has conclusively demonstrated the superiority of
    this stock when used as indicated for the Japanese.”

In the interior region between the Atlantic and Gulf States and the
Mississippi, the Myrobalan is used almost exclusively for the European
plums and most largely for the other species. Several nurserymen from
this region, however, state that the St. Julien is better than the
Myrobalan for the Domesticas and Insititias but object to them because
the stocks cannot be obtained as cheaply. The peach is generally
recommended for the Triflora sorts and the statement is several times
repeated that the Americanas would be preferred for the native species if
stocks of this species could be obtained readily.

In the northern states of the Mississippi Valley, all nurserymen agree
that plums must be worked on Americana stocks. In this region the hardy
natives only are grown.

South of the northern tier in the states of the plains the Myrobalan is
used almost exclusively for the European species, most largely for the
Trifloras, with the peach second for this species, and Americana stocks
for the native species. Stark Brothers of Louisiana, Missouri, large
growers of nursery stock in this region, express the opinion that “the
right stock for native plums is yet to be found.” In Oklahoma, Texas and
New Mexico the Marianna is mentioned by several nurserymen as desirable,
and is, from these statements, rather more commonly used for stocks in
these states at present than in any other region.

On the Pacific Coast propagators use Myrobalan and peach in about equal
quantities—the first named for heavy soils and the last for the lighter
soils. The native plums are not grown in this region. The almond is
mentioned as being desirable in California under some conditions. Some
plum-growers in the states of the Pacific propagate their own trees from
suckers.

The information given by nurserymen shows that by far the greatest number
of plums in the country are grown on Myrobalan stocks. In New York this
stock is used almost exclusively. In Europe the writer found that the
nurserymen hold that this is a dwarfing stock, and that the trees on it
are shorter-lived than on some other stocks. In the nurseries in New
York, plums in general, but more especially the Europeans, are larger
and finer trees at two years, the selling age, grown on Myrobalan roots
than trees grown on other stocks. Nurserymen lodge but two complaints
against it; these are that in the South it suckers badly and in the
cold states of the Great Plains the roots are killed by the winters.
Its advantages from the tree-growers’ standpoint are: Cheapness of the
stock, which is usually imported from France, large handsome trees in the
nursery, ease of budding and a good union with nearly all varieties. Some
growers complain that certain varieties overgrow this stock making in
the end a badly mal-formed trunk. The Myrobalan plums are very variable,
a fact which finds record in nearly all the characters of tree and
fruit and this is somewhat against it as a stock. It is for this reason
that there are so many “true” and “false” Myrobalans among nurserymen.
Many importers hold that this stock is grown in France from cuttings.
Such it seems was the old practice but now, if information from France
is correct, most of these stocks are grown from seed. Hansen reports
that in South Dakota this stock is worthless because it winter-kills.
He says[150] “in experiments at this Station a very small per cent. of
Myrobalan stocks survived the first winter and these died the ensuing
summer.” It is likely that this stock would suffer in the coldest parts
of New York.

In this region the St. Julien is probably the next most common stock in
plum orchards though trees on it are for most part old, as its use is
on the decrease. There is a wide-spread opinion among plum-growers that
this is a much better stock for Domestica and Insititia plums than any
other. On St. Julien stocks varieties of these species, it is claimed,
with much to substantiate the claim, produce trees that are longer-lived,
thriftier, hardier, deeper feeders, sprout less and are less susceptible
to changes in soils. The chief objections to this stock are: It is more
expensive, sometimes scarcely obtainable in France; difficult to bud; the
young trees do not make as good growth as on the Myrobalan stocks; and
the yearlings are much more susceptible to fungi while in the nursery
row, though the latter troubles can be remedied wholly or in part by
spraying. Hansen, in the reference given above, says that “the St. Julien
and European Sloe (_Prunus spinosa_) both winter-killed” in South Dakota
when used as stocks. The St. Julien stock is propagated from layers when
properly grown in France[151] but much undesirable stock is now raised
from seed. There are fruiting trees of this stock about the nurseries
in the neighborhood of this Station which show it to be an Insititia
of the Damson type, a type likely to come fairly true to seed yet not
sufficiently so as to make seed-grown trees desirable.

The Horse plum was formerly used as a stock by nurserymen a great deal
but is now wholly superseded. Indeed, it is so nearly lost to the trade
as to make it almost impossible to really know what the plum of this name
is. Some describe it as a small-fruited Domestica, others as an Insititia
similar to the St. Julien, but the majority of the trees shown by old
nurserymen in the nursery region of New York, about the only place in
which the stock was used, show it to be a Cerasifera but not Myrobalan.
Some of the named varieties of Cerasifera probably sprung from sprouts of
this stock. It seems to have had no qualities which would make it worth
while to attempt to re-establish the stock.

The testimony of a large number of nurserymen is in favor of the peach
as a stock for plums. Budded on the peach, plums of many varieties are
grown very successfully on the warm sandy and gravelly soils so well
suited to the peach. This stock enables the tree to make a quick growth
and come into bearing early, and the roots do not produce sprouts. The
budding with the peach is easily done, the young trees make a vigorous
growth in the nursery and plums on peach roots can probably be grown at
a less cost than on any other stock. Triflora plums in particular make
excellent trees worked upon peach stock, the roots are as hardy as the
tops and the union is sufficiently congenial to make the resulting tree
long-lived. For the Domestica and Insititia plums the peach stock is not
so valuable, for with some varieties a good union is not secured and the
roots are less hardy than the tops. Among the varieties which nurserymen
say will not unite with the peach are: Lombard, Damsons, Yellow Egg and
Washington. Peach borers are sometimes troublesome when plums are budded
on peach stocks.

Mr. Kerr, in his statement regarding stocks, on page 115, says that it is
his practice to whip-graft the plum on “whole-root” peach roots obtaining
eventually the plum on its own roots. This method is certainly well
adapted to Mr. Kerr’s conditions but whether it would do in heavier soils
and a colder climate is doubtful. One would suspect that some varieties
of Domesticas and Insititias at least would sprout badly.

In the South, more particularly Texas and the Southwest, Marianna stocks
find favor, though their use seems to be on the decrease. The advantages
of this stock are such as appeal to the nurserymen rather than to the
plum-grower. These are that the Marianna readily strikes root from
cuttings and the growth in the nursery is all that can be desired.
Cuttings strike more easily in the South than in the North, hence its
popularity in the first named region.

For the colder parts of the Great Plains and as far east as to include
Wisconsin, Americana seedlings are the only stocks that will withstand
the winter. In this region Americana stocks are, of course, used only for
the native plums and data seem to be lacking as to whether other plums
cultivated for their fruit could be grown on this stock or not. The W.
& T. Smith Company of Geneva report that they are now using Americana
seedlings for native plums for their eastern trade, speaking of them as
follows: “We think we get a larger growth and a better root system by
using the native (Americana) stocks. We also consider that the Flowering
Almonds, _Prunus triloba_ and _Prunus pissardi_, make a better growth on
native stocks.” From the last statement one would suspect that it would
be feasible to grow other orchard plums than the native species on this
stock. As yet Americana seedlings are expensive, and until they cost
less their use in competition with the Myrobalan and peach stocks will
be almost precluded. The chief fault of the Americana stock is that the
trees sucker rather badly.

Besides the plants discussed above various nondescript members of the
genus Prunus are used as stocks for cultivated plums under particular
circumstances or for particular purposes. Seedlings of Munsoniana plums
are supposed to be preeminently adapted for low wet lands. J. W. Kerr
believes that seedlings of _Prunus hortulana_ are excellent stocks
for native plums as they never sucker.[152] The Sand plum (_Prunus
angustifolia watsoni_) offers possibilities as a stock for dwarfing
larger growing species. According to Hansen,[153] who reviews the
literature and describes several experiments of his own, the western Sand
cherry (_Prunus besseyi_) dwarfs varieties worked upon it and has the
merits of being extremely hardy and of producing trees which bear early
and abundantly. As stated in the discussion of Subcordata, stocks of this
plum have been used on the Pacific Coast and discarded because it dwarfs
trees and suckers badly. According to Wickson,[154] the apricot and
almond are sometimes used as stocks for plums in California and in some
instances with considerable success.

Lastly, suckers are not uncommonly used by plum-growers for certain
varieties. Thus in the western part of New York, the plum-growing region
of the East, several varieties as the Reine Claudes and some of the
Damsons are propagated from sprouts taken from the base of old trees.
This method can be used, of course, only when the trees are grown
upon their own roots. The writer was told by plum-growers in Germany
and France that most of the plums in gardens and small plantations,
constituting the majority of the plums in the two countries, were
propagated from suckers. This method has small merit except that it
enables a grower to get a few trees cheaply and perhaps gives a better
tree of some varieties for a heavy soil. Beyond question it gives trees
with a tendency to sucker—an undesirable attribute.

In the horticultural literature of the time recommendations for
top-working plums are rather frequent. It is true that many varieties
of plums grow slowly and make crooked growths, especially in the
nursery, but in the attempts at grafting in New York the failures are
more conspicuous than the successes. If top-working is decided upon,
the earlier in the life of the tree it is done, the better. For the
Domesticas at least, the Lombard is probably the best stock. The method
of top-working is to graft in early spring or bud in late summer.
Grafting ought to be used more often than it is to renew the tops of
injured trees, as the difficulties in doing this are not much greater
than in the case of apples.


PLUM ORCHARDS AND THEIR CARE.

Plum trees in New York are set from twelve to twenty feet apart. The
amount of room given seems to depend mostly upon the custom in the
locality, though, as all agree, it should depend upon the soil and
the variety. The deduction which plum-growers are drawing from these
experiences is that the plum should have more room than is generally
given it, therefore, wider plantings are more the rule now than formerly.
Little attention has been paid to mixed planting for cross-pollination
in this State, as the Domesticas are planted almost exclusively and seem
under orchard conditions to be self-fertile.

In this region plum trees are usually planted two years from the bud, the
exception being the Japanese which are sometimes set at a year from the
bud. Plum trees in the past have been headed at three or four feet above
the ground but the tendency now is to head them lower—half the above
distances, and in orchards so planted there seems to be no inconvenience
in tilling with modern implements. In the commercial orchards of the
State the heads are formed of four or five main branches and in the
case of the Domesticas and Insititias about a central trunk but with
the Trifloras the leader is often removed leaving a vase-formed head.
After the head is formed the subsequent pruning is simple, consisting of
cutting out injured and crossed branches and heading-in long, whip-like
growths. The Trifloras receive more pruning than the European varieties,
as much of the fruit is borne on the growth of the previous season and it
is necessary to keep the bearing wood near the trunk. It is the custom to
cut rank growing Trifloras severely but the value of such a procedure is
doubtful, as the more such a plum is pruned the more it will need pruning
in the years to follow. A better plan seems to be to curtail the food and
prune as little as possible, though on rich soils the tree would probably
grow out of all bounds unless cut back somewhat year after year.

About the only cultivated native plums to be found in New York, if a
few Wild Goose trees here and there are excepted, are on the grounds
of this Station. Experience here demonstrates that, prune as you will,
certain varieties of the native species will remain crooked, ungainly and
unkempt. Pruning some varieties is necessary in order to permit pickers
to get into the dense, thorny heads; heading-in such varieties would make
their tops wholly impenetrable.

In common with all tree-fruits the best plum orchards are tilled. Such
tillage usually consists of plowing in the spring followed by frequent
cultivation until the middle of August, at which time a cover-crop of
clover, oats or barley is sown. The plum seems to require more water
than other tree-fruits—it often thrives in comparatively moist land and
fails on sandy soils where the peach would grow luxuriantly. Cultivation
to save moisture is very necessary for the plum in the experience of New
York growers. Grass and grain have proved ruinous in most orchards where
tried, though cultivated crops between young trees to pay for keep until
fruiting-time are very generally planted. The claim is made by some, and
with a show of reason, that there is less of the brown-rot in tilled
orchards than in neglected ones for the reason that the mummied fruits
which carry the fungus through the winter are buried by plowing and with
shallow cultivation, at least, do not come to light and life.

Plum-growers very generally recognize the several distinct and valuable
purposes which cover-crops serve in orchards. They protect the tree from
root-killing, from cold, keep the soil from washing, add humus and,
with legumes, nitrogen to the soil, modify the physical structure of
the soil and hasten seasonal maturity of the tree. There is one other
function which is not so often taken into account. Plum orchards in
which cover-crops are regularly grown, even though the crop be not a
legume, need less fertilizers than those in which no such crop is grown.
There are several reasonable suppositions as to why there should be such
an effect, but one not usually given sufficient consideration is that
cover-crops make available much plant food in the soil. Each plant in the
crop collects food from soil and air, most of it otherwise unavailable,
and turns it over to the trees.

A discussion of fertilizers naturally follows. Present practices in the
use of fertilizers with the plum, as with other fruits, are very diverse.
It is impossible to ascertain what considerations have governed the
applications of fertilizers in the plum orchards of New York or what the
results have been. Too often, it is to be feared, fertilizers have been
used as “cure-alls” for any or all of the ills to which trees are heirs.
Out of the mass of conflicting data as to the effects of fertilizers on
plums, the most apparent fact is that much of the fertilizers for this
fruit is wasted; this in face of the fact that plums want rich soils. But
the plum crop is mostly water, the foliage remains on the ground, the
trees grow several years before fruiting, their growing season is from
early spring until late fall, the roots go deep and spread far, the trees
transpire large amounts of water, hence may thrive on diluted solutions
of plant food, and now and then there is an off year in bearing for the
trees to recuperate.

It does not follow from the above consideration that plums never need
fertilizers, but it does seem plain that they need rather less than truck
or farm crops and that applications of plant food must be made with
exceedingly great care if fertilizing is to be done without waste. There
is a growing disposition on the part of plum-growers to experiment very
carefully and know that they are getting the worth of their money before
using any considerable quantity of fertilizers for their trees.

Thinning the fruit should be a regular practice with plum-growers, but
it is the operation in the growing of this fruit about which growers are
most careless both as to whether it is done at all and in the manner
of doing. Many growers in New York, realizing the great necessity of
thinning certain varieties of Triflora, as Burbank and Abundance, follow
the practice very regularly with plums of this group; but the Domesticas
are seldom well thinned, though some of them, of which Lombard is a
conspicuous example, ought nearly always to have anywhere from one-fifth
to half of the fruit removed. Growers of some of the native varieties in
regions where these sorts are grown say that under cultivation some kinds
of these plums will bear themselves to death if a part of the crop be not
removed in most years. Those growers in New York who thin, do the work as
soon as possible after the June drop has taken place.


HARVESTING AND MARKETING.

Plum trees in this climate begin to bear when set from three to five
years. The Triflora varieties will bear soonest, the Old World varieties
next in order, say at four years from setting, and the native sorts, as
a rule, come in bearing last. At eight or ten years of age, prolific
varieties of the Triflora and Domestica sorts bear in a good year about
three bushels of fruit; the Insititia and native varieties, on the
Station grounds, at least, do not bear as much, though most of the plums
of these two groups bear more regularly than the first named groups.

Plums in this State, and east of the Mississippi generally, are picked
and put upon the market just before they reach edible condition; while
farther away they must be picked much greener. It is the practice in the
East to pick while still somewhat green because the fruit so picked is
best handled at this stage of maturity and the brown-rot fungus is likely
to destroy much of the crop if left until fully matured. Some of the
Triflora sorts, Abundance, Burbank and October, for example, are picked
from a week to ten days before ripe and yet develop very good color and
flavor. The Domesticas need not be, and are not, picked quite so green.
In picking, great diversity exists as to ladders, receptacles, and manner
of conveyance from orchard to packing house. These need not be discussed
here, nor need the methods of picking be spoken of further than to say
that while good growers consider it vital not to bruise the fruit nor
destroy the delicate bloom, if such injuries can be avoided, pickers in
general are not nearly as observant of these important details as they
should be.

The plum crop is sent to market, for most part in New York, in six,
eight and ten-pound grape baskets with the preference at present for the
smallest of these baskets. Occasionally some fruit is packed in four
pound baskets. Rarely, and always to the disadvantage of both producer
and consumer, plums go to market in the packages in which the fruit
is picked. Indeed, it is seldom advantageous to pack the fruit in the
field, it being far better to convey it to the packing house where the
preparations for shipping may be more carefully made, as the package and
the manner of packing advertise the product. Plums coming to this State
from the far West are often wrapped individually in tissue paper as a
help in safe shipping and to add to their attractiveness but the fruit
grown in the State is seldom, if ever, so treated, though it is possible
that choice specimens could be profitably wrapped. Of the sorting,
grading, facing and marking the packages, little need be said except
that they are too rarely well done in present methods, though there is a
steady improvement in attending to these important matters.

Few plums are stored longer than a week at most in common storage and
three weeks or a month is quite the limit for most varieties in cold
storage. Late plums and in particular some of the prunes might well be
stored longer than is now the custom if proper precautions are taken, as
is shown by the experience at this Station where a considerable number
of the Domestica and Insititia varieties are annually kept in common
storage for a month or longer without unusual precautions. Some of the
new varieties offered to growers, as Apple and Occident, are recommended
as keeping for several weeks after picking. There is a most marked
difference in the keeping qualities of this fruit and it is certain that
varieties can now be selected for long keeping and that there is a fine
opportunity for breeding sorts that will keep even longer than any we now
have.

Marketing, the actual selling, is a business quite by itself, and since
it is one which has changed greatly in the past few years and is destined
to change even more in the near future, a few observations on the subject
are worth putting on record. A well developed local market is undoubtedly
the best selling place for the plum producer, as in it the sales are
directly to the consumer, eliminating expensive middlemen. The westward
spread of manufacturing industries, the workers in which use up the
western-grown fruit, is making better local markets for eastern plums, a
point worth noting, for many New York plum-growers have ceased planting,
indeed have been removing trees, fearing western competition.

By far the greater part of the plum crop now finds its way to consumers
through the following costly distributive system: 1st. Local buyers who
ship to centers of consumption. 2nd. Transportation companies. 3rd.
Commission companies who collect and distribute the crop in consuming
centers. 4th. Retailers who parcel out the quantities and the qualities
demanded by the consumer. The great defect in handling the crop is,
that there are too many men and too much machinery to do the work
cheaply—moreover, the risks of depreciation are great, and the fruit is
not handled on a large scale chiefly because of a lack of capital by the
grower or local buyer. These defects in the present distribution of plums
in New York make the price received by the grower about half that paid
by the consumer and the selling of the crop a more or less speculative
business. The plum industry, as is the case with all fruits, is greatly
hampered by the present marketing systems.

Unfortunately there is yet but a small outlet for surplus plums as
manufactured products. As a rule the commercial outlook is best for those
fruits of which the surplus can be turned into by-products. The only
outlet for the plum in the East is in canning, as this region is unable
to compete with the West in the making of prunes[155] and as the several
plum products of the Old World are not in demand in the New World. Beyond
question there are a number of products, as preserves, jellies from
the native plums, glacé fruits, plum butter, marmalades and the like,
which could be made profitable for the markets and thus a great help in
utilizing surplus plums.


DISEASES.

Plums are subject to a considerable number of fungus diseases, several of
which are often virulent, the virulence depending on locality, season,
weather and variety. Happily for the plum industry, knowledge of plant
pathology has made such advancements in recent years that nearly all of
the diseases of this fruit are now controlled by preventive or remedial
measures.

One of the commonest and most striking of the diseases of the plum is
black-knot[156] (_Plowrightia morbosa_ (Schw.) Saccardo) characterized
by wartlike excrescences on shoots and branches. In early summer these
knots are dark green, soft and velvety, but as the fungus ripens in the
fall the color changes to a carbon-like black and the knots become hard
and brittle. The disease is usually confined to one side of the twig
or branch so that death of the affected part does not ensue at once.
Black-knot is an American malady, at one time confined to the eastern
part of the continent where in some localities its ravages forced the
abandonment of plum-growing. The fungus is now endemic to wild or
cultivated plants in practically all the plum-growing regions of the
continent, but it is still epidemic only in the East, the South and West
being practically free from the disease. Unless especially virulent
black-knot is controlled by cutting out the diseased wood. Usually
eradication is not possible without several prunings during a season.

Much has been made of the supposed immunity of some varieties of plums
to black-knot. In the vicinity of this Station, where the disease is
always present and often rampant, the differences in immunity are not
very marked in varieties of the same species. The Trifloras are less
attacked, however, than any other group of plums, and the Insititias
rank next in immunity. No variety of the Domesticas has yet proved to
be free from the disease but strong claims are made that Middleburg and
Palatine are relatively free.

Next in order of seriousness among the diseases which attack cultivated
plums is the brown-rot[157] (_Sclerotinia fructigena_ (Persoon)
Schroeter) known also very commonly as the ripe-rot and sometimes as
peach-blight. The disease is most conspicuous on the ripe fruits of the
various drupes and is popularly supposed to be confined to the fruits
alone. Such is not the case, for it also attacks, and very vigorously
oftentimes, the flowers and shoots. The presence of the disease on the
fruits is known by a dark discoloration of the skin which is afterward
partly or wholly covered by pustule-like aggregations of grayish spores.
The decayed fruits may fall to the ground, or as is more usual in the
case of plums, they hang to the tree and as the juice evaporates become
shriveled mummies, each mummy being a storehouse of the fungus from which
infection spreads the following season. The twigs, flowers and leaves
are known to be suffering from inroads of the parasite when they are
blackened as if nipped by frost. In warm, damp weather the rot spreads
with great rapidity and fruits touching in clusters or in boxes stored
for shipping are well placed to spread the epidemic. Destruction of the
mummy-like fruits and all other sources of infection, and spraying with
bordeaux mixture are now practiced as preventives, but so far as the crop
is concerned with but indifferent success. A better remedy than we now
have is eagerly looked for by growers of fruits.

The hosts of this fungus show varying degrees of susceptibility to it,
the peach and the sweet cherries being more subject to it than plums.
Similarly, among plums some species and varieties are more susceptible
than others. Thus the Trifloras and Americanas, the latter especially
in the South, are injured more by the brown-rot than other species.
The idiosyncrasies of varieties in this regard are best shown in the
discussions of the individual sorts.

Several interesting and sometimes destructive diseases of plums are
caused by various species of the fungal genus Exoascus.[158] The most
common of these, and the most striking and destructive, is plum-pockets
(_Exoascus pruni_ Fuckel), which causes prominent deformities of
the fruit. These give the disease the common name or less frequently
“bladders” and “curl.” The fungus attacks the developing fruits at an
early stage of their growth and causes the production of a spongy mass in
the fleshy tissue which greatly enlarges and distorts the plum. The stone
in a diseased plum is but rudimentary or very often not at all developed.
Less prominently but quite as frequently, the leaves are attacked,
showing as they unfold more or less red or yellow with a very decided
curling and arching of the leaf-blade. The disease usually spreads from
the leaves to the shoots, the infected shoots with their rosettes of
mal-formed leaves giving the tree a most unsightly appearance. Prevention
at present consists of removing the diseased parts and spraying with
bordeaux mixture when the buds begin to swell. Munsoniana and Hortulana
plums seem to be most susceptible to this disease. Atkinson[159] has
described several species of Exoascus on the different species of wild
plums, some of which are liable to be found on the cultivated varieties
of the native plums. They are all very similar to _Exoascus pruni_,
differing chiefly, in the eyes of the layman, in forming smaller pockets.
Sturgis[160] records an attack of one of the leaf-curl fungi, distinct
from the plum-pockets fungus, on varieties of Triflora in Connecticut,
which seemed to him to be of scientific and economic importance.

The leaves of the different species of cultivated plums are attacked by
several fungi which produce diseased spots on the foliage, which for most
part drop out, causing a shot-hole effect. These diseases pass under such
descriptive names as “shot-hole fungus,” “leaf-spot,” and “leaf-blight.”
The fungus probably responsible for most of this trouble is best known as
the shot-hole fungus[161] (_Cylindrosporium padi_ Karsten). The Domestica
and Triflora varieties are very susceptible to this fungus, which, on the
foliage of the first, causes spots for most part, while on the latter the
spots on the leaves are nearly always followed by holes. Varieties of the
native species, especially those of Americana and Nigra, are relatively
free from this disease. Another of these shot-hole fungi is _Cercospora
circumscissa_ Saccardo[162], much less common than the former, but still
to be considered and especially on the foliage of Americana. All of these
diseases of the foliage are prevented to some degree by the proper use
of bordeaux mixture, which, on the Triflora plums at least, must be used
with great care to avoid injury. Cultivation has a salutary effect as it
destroys the diseased leaves which harbor the fungi.

Another disease of plum foliage, occurring rarely on the fruit, is the
plum-leaf rust[163] (_Puccinia pruni-spinosae_ Persoon) which produces so
considerable a number of spore cases on the underside of the leaves as
to give the foliage a brownish cast and to cause defoliation in severe
infections. The fungus is most apparent in the fall and most troublesome
in warm, moist climates. Bordeaux is used as a preventive.

Stewart and Rolfs have shown that trunks and branches of plums affected
by sunscald in New York are almost invariably infested by a fungus[164]
(_Valsa leucostoma_ Persoon) which in the Old World is known as the
“die back” of the peach. The disease manifests itself on plums chiefly
by affected areas much depressed at the boundary between the living and
the dead bark, these areas usually, not always, having connection with
sunscald injuries on the trunk. The disease is accompanied by more or
less gumming.

In common with nearly all rosaceous plants, in nearly all countries,
the plum is sometimes seriously injured by the powdery mildew[165]
(_Podosphaera oxyacanthae_ DeBary). The affected leaves have a grayish
appearance caused by the parts of the fungus which project beyond the
leaf tissue; when badly diseased the leaves are more or less arched and
curled. Mildew is seldom prevalent enough on plums to require treatment.

The crown gall,[166] (_Bacterium tumefaciens_ Smith and Townsend) is a
parasite on all of the fruits of the order Rosaceae and is especially
common on nursery stock, attacking plums in many soils but rarely,
however, to the great injury of the plant. These galls are perennial
structures of very varying duration. They are to be found on the roots,
usually at the collar of the plant, and vary from the size of a pea to
that of a man’s fist, forming at maturity, rough, knotty, dark-colored
masses. Means of prevention or cure are not established though all agree
that soils may be inoculated with the disease from infected stock; hence
the necessity of discarding diseased trees at transplanting time.

Smith found in Michigan and Clinton in Connecticut a disease of the fruit
called bacterial black spot[167] (_Pseudomonas pruni_ Smith) of the same
generic origin as the crown gall but widely different in nature. The
writers and the growers who found the infected fruit, saw the disease
only on the Triflora plums. It attacks the green fruits which show
conspicuous, black-purple, sunken spots sometimes as large as half an
inch in diameter. The injuries are usually isolated and quite superficial
but nevertheless, spoil the fruit.

The plum in common with other stone-fruits often suffers from an
excessive flow of gum, for which trouble the name gummosis[168] is now
generally applied. The disease is to be found wherever plums are grown
but it is much more destructive on the Pacific than on the Atlantic
seaboard. So far as is now known gummosis is secondary to injuries caused
by fungi, bacteria, insects, frost, sunscald, and mechanical agencies.
The disease is least common in species and varieties having hard wood;
on trees on soils favoring the maturity of wood; under conditions where
sun and frost are not injurious; and, obviously, in orchards where by
good care the primary causes of gumming are kept out. Stewart[169] has
recorded an interesting case of gum-pockets in the fruit, but could
assign no cause.

Mechanical injuries from the sun, frost and hail are troubles with which
nearly all plum-growers must contend at one time or another. In this
region the Reine Claude and Triflora plums suffer much from sunscald
but none are wholly immune, though Lombard is possibly most so. These
injuries from the elements of weather are often mistaken for diseases,
and are so often followed by fungal parasites and insects as to make
it difficult to distinguish the primary from the secondary trouble.
Low-heading of the trees is the best preventive of these trunk injuries.

Plums are somewhat subject to attacks of the well-known peach scab[170]
(_Cladosporium carpophilum_ Thumen). The scab appears in numerous, small,
sooty, circular spots of brownish color, often confined to one side of
a fruit but in other cases distributed over the whole surface. None of
the cultivated species are free from the disease but the Munsoniana,
and Hortulana varieties are most susceptible to it. Pear blight,[171]
(_Bacillus amylovorus_ (Burrill) DeToni) commonly thought of as a disease
of the pear and apple has been found on various plums, and the yellows of
the peach, cause unknown, is often quite destructive to Triflora plums.
According to Smith the peach rosette,[172] cause unknown, attacks both
wild and cultivated plums in the South and is quickly fatal. The disease
was prevalent on the wild Angustifolias, on two varieties of Triflora,
Kelsey and Botan, but the observer had not seen rosette on varieties of
Domestica.

Waugh describes a trouble which he calls “flyspeck fungus”[173] found on
fruits sent from the Southern States, in which small areas are thickly
dotted with black spots; also a fruit-spot on plums from Texas caused, as
he states, by an undetermined Phoma.[174] Starnes of Georgia describes a
malady of the Triflora plums called “wilt,”[175] cause unknown, which he
states is the most serious obstacle to the culture of this plum in the
South. In this peculiar disease the foliage passes directly from a green,
healthy state into a wilted and then parched condition, the death warrant
being signed when a tree is once affected. In Oregon and Washington the
Italian Prune is subject to a leaf-curl[176] which begins in mid-summer
and curls the leaves conduplicately without withering but shriveling
somewhat. As the season advances the leaves turn yellow and many of them
drop. Neither cause nor cure is known. Smith described a plum-blight[177]
of native plums in Georgia which “destroys large branches or even whole
trees in mid-summer in the course of a few weeks.”


INSECTS.

Cultivated plums furnish food for a great number of insects. Many of the
destructive insect pests of the several cultivated species of Prunus
are known to have come from the wild plants of the genus, but others,
and possibly the majority, come from over the seas. No less than forty
species of insects may be enumerated as pests of the plum and many
more can be counted as occasional parasites on one or another of the
species. Of the formidable pests the plum curculio is probably the most
troublesome. The plum curculio[178] (_Conotrachelus nenuphar_ Herbst) is
a rough, grayish snout-beetle somewhat less than a quarter of an inch
in length, an insect so familiar to fruit-growers as hardly to need
a description. The female beetle pierces the skin of the young plums
and places an egg in the puncture. About this cavity she gouges out a
crescent-shaped trench, the puncture and trench making the “star and
crescent” of the Ottoman Empire, hence the common name of the beetle,
“The Little Turk.” The egg-laying process may be repeated in a number
of fruits and from each egg a larva hatches within a week and burrows
to the stone, making a wormy fruit. Most of the infested plums drop. In
years past plum-growers relied upon jarring the beetles from the trees
in the early morning, but the treatment was too expensive, and poisoning
with an arsenate is now the chief means of combating the pest. Rubbish
and vegetation offer hiding places for the insects and hence cultivated
orchards are more free from curculio. Thin skinned varieties are damaged
most by the insect but there are no “curculio-proof” plums.

A larger snout-beetle than the curculio, the plum gouger[179]
(_Anthonomus scutellaris_ LeConte), occasionally does much damage to
plums. The work of the gouger may be told from that of the curculio by
the absence of the crescent cut about the puncture made for the egg, and
from the fact that the larvæ of this pest chiefly infest the stone and
those of the other insect the flesh of the plum. The remedies are the
same for the two insects though the gouger is more easily destroyed.

Among the several borers which are more or less destructive to species
of Rosaceae only the peach borer[180] (_Sanninoidea exitiosa_ Say.)
may be counted as a troublesome pest of the plum. The larvæ of this
insect are frequently to be found in both wild and cultivated plum trees
and must be combated in nearly all plum orchards east of the Rocky
Mountains. The prevention of the work of the borer is best accomplished
by thorough cultivation, the use of coverings of tar and poisonous washes
and mounding the trees. Destruction is effectively carried out only by
digging out the borer with knife or wire. The lesser peach borer[181]
(_Sesia pictipes_ Grote & Robinson) attacks the plum and in New York has
been found particularly injurious to the Wickson plums. The flat-headed
apple tree borer[182] (_Chrysobothris femorata_ Fabricius) is frequently
found in the wood of wild plums and is sometimes a pest of the several
cultivated species. It is treated as is the peach borer. The shot-hole
borer[183] (_Eccoptogaster rugulosus_ Ratzeburg) a diminutive insect
which deposits its eggs in the trunks or large branches of various
members of the genus Prunus, may be regarded as an effect rather than a
cause of disease, for it seldom injures perfectly healthy plum trees.
The peach bark-beetle[184] (_Phlœotribus liminaris_ Harris) is somewhat
similar in its work to the shot-hole borer and like it is found for most
part only in diseased and decrepit trees.

The plum aphis[185] (_Aphis prunifolii_ Fitch) is sometimes very
destructive to varieties of the native plums, especially the Americanas,
and occasionally injures or even kills the young trees of the Domestica
sorts. It is not a formidable foe in New York, and it is the exception
when trees must be treated for it, the treatment being any of the contact
solutions used against sucking insects. The cherry aphis[186] (_Myzus
cerasi_ Linnaeus) and the green peach aphis[187] (_Myzus persicæ_ Sulzer)
are much less common than the plum aphis on plum trees, but are sometimes
abundant on foliage of this fruit and are combated in the same way as the
more common aphis. Gillette enumerates two other aphids as attacking the
plum in Colorado—the rusty brown plum louse[188] (_Aphis setariæ_ Thomas)
and the mealy plum louse[189] (_Hyalopterus arundinis_ Fabricius).

Several scale insects infest the plum. Chief of these is the dreaded San
José scale[190] (_Aspidiotus perniciosus_ Comstock) known and feared by
all fruit-growers in the United States. The lime and sulphur solution
is now the most common and probably the most effective spray for this
insect. The European fruit lecanium[191] (_Lecanium corni_ Bouche)
occasionally does a great deal of damage in New York and now and then
destroys the whole crop in an orchard. The winter treatment for San
José scale is used to control this pest, but usually such treatment
is supplemented by a summer spray about July first with such contact
sprays as whale oil soap and kerosene emulsion. Of the other scales[192]
which feed upon plums and now and then become pestiferous the following
may be named: The fruit pulvinaria (_Pulvinaria amygdali_ Cockerell),
the mealy bug (_Pseudococcus longispinus_ Targioni), the scurfy scale
(_Chionaspis furfura_ Fitch.), the West Indian peach scale (_Aulacaspis
pentagona_ Targioni), the Putnam scale (_Aspidiotus ancylus_ Putnam),
the cherry scale (_Aspidiotus forbesi_ Johnson), the walnut scale
(_Aspidiotus juglans-regiæ_ Comstock), Howard’s scale (_Aspidiotus
howardii_ Cockerell), the European fruit scale (_Aspidiotus ostreæformis_
Curtis), the red scale of California (_Chrysomphalus aurantii_ Maskell),
the oyster-shell scale (_Lepidosaphes ulmi_ Linnaeus), and the soft scale
(_Coccus hesperidum_ Linnaeus).

Wild plums of several species seem to be favorite feeding grounds
for the tent caterpillar[193] (_Malacosoma americana_ Fabricius),
but cultivated plums are not so often attacked; the spraying with
arsenites usually given for the curculio is fatal to this pest as well.
The spring canker-worm[194] (_Paleacrita vernata_ Peck) and the fall
canker-worm[195] (_Alsophila pometaria_ Harris) are other caterpillars
which often do much damage unless checked by destructive measures, of
which the best are the arsenical sprays. The larvæ of a considerable
number of other moths and butterflies are often found on plum foliage but
seldom in such numbers as to require systematic destruction.

The eye-spotted bud-moth[196] (_Tmetocera ocellana_ Schiffermuller) is a
rather serious pest in plum nurseries where the larvæ eat into the young
buds at the time they are opening, often destroying the shoots. Sometimes
the larvæ are found destroying buds on old trees. The arsenical sprays
are used to destroy this pest. The peach twig-moth (_Anarsia lineatella_
Zeller) is now and then found in plum twigs but is seldom classed as a
plum pest.

The clover mite[197] (_Bryobia pratensis_ Garman) formerly considered a
serious pest of the plum only in the far West, is now abundant in plum
orchards in New York. It can be controlled by applications of lime and
sulphur. The bumble-flower beetle[198] (_Euphoria inda_ Linnaeus) is
reported by Goff to be occasionally very injurious to plums in Wisconsin.
Remedies seem not to have been tried. The larvæ of the cherry slug[199]
(_Selandria cerasi_ Peck) is not infrequently found doing damage to plum
foliage and occasionally the larvæ of one or two other saw-flies feed on
the plum. These are all overcome by the use of arsenical sprays. At least
one of the curious insects know as “case-bearers” attacks the plums. The
troublesome one is the pistol case-bearer[200] (_Coleophora malivorella_
Riley), which is not often a pest but has sometimes done considerable
damage. Attempts to check this insect with the arsenical sprays have
usually proved successful. The plum tree is a host-plant of the hop
aphis[201] (_Phorodon humuli_ Schrank). So much does this insect feed on
the plum that the destruction of plum trees in the vicinity of hop fields
is recommended to hop-growers by Riley.




CHAPTER III

LEADING VARIETIES OF PLUMS.


ABUNDANCE

[Illustration: ABUNDANCE]

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 96. 1887. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =9=:360.
    1888. =3.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51, 52, 53, 99. 1889. =4.=
    Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 103. 1889. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 106,
    125. 1891. =6.= _Am. Gard._ =13=:700. 1892. =7.= _Rural N. Y._
    =52=:666. 1893. =8.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:19, 27, 32. 1894.
    =9.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:488. 1894. =10.= _Rev. Hort._ 160.
    1895. =11.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:52. 1895. =12.= _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =106=:41, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49. 1896. =13.= _Va. Sta.
    Bul._ =67=:96. 1896. =14.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:195. 1897.
    =15.= _Ibid._ =139=:37, 38, 39, 40. 1897. =16.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 26. 1897. =17.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:141, 142, 143.
    1899. =18.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 132, 135. 1901. =19.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:242, 248. 1899. =20.= _Ont. Fruit Exp. Sta.
    Rpt._ 15. 1902. =21.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254, 255. 1905.
    =22.= _Texas Nur. Co. Cat._ 9. 1907. =23.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    =68=:7, 28. 1905.

    _Abundance_ 7. _Babcock_ (?) 15, 17. Babcock 12, 16, 18. Botan
    1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 10. _Botan_ 12, 16, 18. _Botankio_ 12. Botankio
    3. Burbank No. 2, 11, 12. Chase 12. _Chase_ 14, 15, 17. Douglas
    9, 15, 18. _Douglas_ 17. _Hattankio_ 8, 15. _Hattonkin_ 12.
    _Hytankayo_ 8, 9. Munson 8. _Munson_ 9, 18. Oriole 22. Sweet
    Botan 7. _Sweet Botan_ 15. _Yellow Fleshed Botan_ 3, 6, 8, 17,
    23. Yellow Fleshed Botan 5. _Yellow Japan_ 12. Yellow Japan 8,
    14.

Though Abundance has been in America only a quarter of a century, it
is now about as well known as any other plum, being probably the best
known of the Triflora plums. The two chief assets which have given the
variety its great popularity so quickly are adaptability to a wide
diversity of soils and climates and, as its name implies, abundance
of fruit, for it bears not only heavily but yearly. As a market plum
Abundance has been overplanted since it ships and keeps poorly, is much
subject to brown-rot, matures unevenly and drops rather too readily as
it ripens. Whether for market or home use, the fruit of this variety
should be picked before it is quite ripe as it develops in flavor best
when so picked and the dropping and rot are thus avoided to some extent.
It is an exceedingly variable plum and undoubtedly several well marked
strains could be selected, some of which are not as hardy or otherwise
as valuable as others. While Abundance has passed the heyday of its
popularity it is still one of the most desirable of the Triflora plums.

This variety was imported from Japan by Luther Burbank in 1884, and
was introduced by John T. Lovett, Little Silver, New Jersey, under the
name Abundance, in 1888. A large number of Japanese plums that have
since been introduced have proved to be either identical or so nearly
like the Abundance that much confusion has arisen. Abundance was first
known as Botan, but that name was dropped as it refers to a group of
plums in Japan rather than to a variety. Babcock, which is said to have
been imported by Burbank in 1885 and named for Colonel E. F. Babcock,
a nurseryman of Little Rock, Arkansas, has been described by Bailey as
indistinguishable from Abundance. Botankio, described in the Georgia
Horticultural Society Report for 1889, proved to be the Abundance
as tested at the Cornell Experiment Station. The Chase plum, also
disseminated in New York under the name Yellow Japan, was bought by the
R. G. Chase Company, Geneva, New York, for the Abundance, but as it was
thought to blossom and fruit later than that variety, it was distributed
as a new plum; in 1897 Bailey considered it the same as Chabot, but in
1899 he stated that it and Abundance were identical. The Douglas plum is
also identical. Dr. J. T. Whitaker of Tyler, Texas, imported this variety
and introduced it in 1886 under the name of Hytankayo. Bailey, who tested
Whitaker’s variety from trees obtained from T. V. Munson, Denison,
Texas, found a yellow-fruited strain and to distinguish the purple form
named the latter Munson.[202] As this name had been applied to a native
plum, R. H. Price, of the Texas Experiment Station, in 1894 renamed
the variety calling it Douglas.[203] There have been two types of this
Douglas plum disseminated; Bailey, in 1899, found no difference between
it and Abundance except that the Douglas seemed to have a little drier
flesh; others testing Douglas found it to be identical with the Chabot.
Burbank No. 2, imported by Luther Burbank in 1885 and introduced by him
in 1889, is very similar if not identical with the Abundance. Oriole,
recently introduced by the Texas Nursery Company, Sherman, Texas, is so
nearly like Abundance as to be unworthy of a separate name. The American
Pomological Society added Abundance to its fruit catalog list in 1897.

    Tree large, vigorous, vasiform, open-topped, hardy in New
    York, very productive, susceptible to attacks of shot-hole
    fungus; branches rough, dark ash-gray, inclined to split when
    overloaded, with few, slightly raised lenticels; branchlets
    slender, short, with short internodes, red early in the season
    changing to dark brown, glossy, glabrous, with numerous,
    inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds small, short,
    conical, plump, free.

    Leaves folded upward, narrow-obovate or oblanceolate,
    peach-like, one and three-eighths inches wide, three and
    one-quarter inches long, thin; upper surface light green,
    smooth, glabrous, with grooved midrib; lower surface pale
    green, pubescent on the midrib and larger veins; apex
    taper-pointed, base cuneate, margin very finely serrate,
    with small, brownish glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    slightly pubescent along one side, reddish, glandless or with
    from one to five small, globose, green or reddish glands
    usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season early; flowers appearing with the leaves,
    medium in size; borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs, in
    pairs or in threes; pedicels of medium length and thickness,
    slightly pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, obconic,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse, with ciliate margins, glabrous,
    erect; petals broadly oval, entire, abruptly clawed; anthers
    yellowish; filaments of average length; pistil glabrous, equal
    to the stamens in length.

    Fruit early, season short; one and three-eighths inches in
    diameter, roundish-ovate, halves nearly equal, slightly
    compressed; cavity medium in depth and width, abrupt, regular;
    suture shallow, distinct; apex pointed; color pinkish-red
    changing to darker red, mottled, with thin bloom; dots
    numerous, of medium size, russet, conspicuous; stem one-half
    inch long, glabrous, parting easily from the fruit; skin thin,
    tough, bitterish, separating readily; flesh yellow, very juicy,
    tender and melting, sweet except next to the pit, pleasantly
    aromatic; good; stone clinging, three-quarters inch by one-half
    inch in size, oval, somewhat compressed, pointed, rough, ridged
    along the ventral suture; dorsal suture grooved.


AGEN

[Illustration: AGEN]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:38, Tab. 189 fig. 1. 1796. =2.=
    _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 143, 147, 152, 153. 1831. =3.= Prince
    _Pom. Man._ =2=:75, 100. 1832. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1.
    1846. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 309. 1845. =6.= _U. S. Pat.
    Off. Rpt._ 30. 1854. =7.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 519. 1859.
    =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 86. 1862. =9.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst.
    Sort._ 427. 1881. =10.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 683. 1884. =11.= Mas
    _Le Verger_ =6=:81, fig. 1866-73. =12.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._
    291. 1885-86. =13.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 343. 1887. =14.=
    _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 49, 50. 1887-88. =15.= _Ibid._ 233, 235,
    340. 1890. =16.= _Ibid._ 96, 105, Pl. 1. 1891. =17.= _Guide
    Prat._ 160, 353. 1895. =18.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:24. 1897.
    =19.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:191. 1897. =20.= U. S. D. A.
    _Div. Pom. Bul._ =7=:315, 316. Pl. IV, fig. 4. 1898. =21.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:241, 242. 1899. =22.= _Cal. Fr. Gr.
    Con._ 29. 1901. =23.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 94, 95 fig. 1901.
    =24.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 495, fig. 331, 506, 507, fig. 336.
    1908. =25.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 225. 1908. =26.= _Cal. Fr.
    Grower_ =40=:18, 19, fig. 1909.

    _Agen_ 22. _Agener Kaiserzwetsche_ 17. Agen Date 3. _Agen
    Datte_ 5, 10. _Agener Pflaume_ 17. Agener Pflaume 9. Agen Prune
    21. _California_ 20. California 16. D’Agen 2, 10, 11, 17, 24.
    _D’Agen_ 3, 5, 8, 13, 20. _D’Ast_ 13, 17. _Date_ 21. _Datte_
    17. _De Brignole_ 17. _D’Ente_ 13, 17, 24. D’Ente d’Agen 13.
    _Datte Violette_ 1, 13, 17. _Die Blaue Dattelpflaume_ 17.
    Die Blaue Dattelpflaume 1. _Du Roi_ 17. _French_ 20. _French
    Prune_ 15, 18, 23, 25. French Prune (?) 2, 12, 14, 15, 26. _Lot
    d’Ente_ 18. _Petite_ 20. _Petite d’Agen_ 14, 20, 26. Petite
    Prune 18. _Petite Prune_ 23. _Petite Prune d’Agen_ 25. Prune
    d’Agen 5, 6, 7, 8, 15, 17, 19, 25. _Prune d’Agen_ 14, 16, 18,
    23. _Prune de Brignole_ (of some) 5, 7, 17. _Prune d’Ante_ 3.
    _Prune d’Ast_ 5, 7, 10, 11. _Prune d’Ente_ 7, 12, 18. _Prunier
    d’Agen_ 3. Prunier d’Agen 6. Prune d’Ente 22. _Prune du Roi_
    10. _Robe de Sergent_ 3, 5, 7, 8, 11, 13, 17, 18. _Robe de
    Sargent_ 10, 12. Roi d’Agen 2. Saint Maurin 2, 4. _St. Maurin_
    5, 7, 10, 17. _Saint Mauriniana_ 4. _Violette Dattelzwetsche_
    17.

Agen is the plum par excellence for prune-making in France and America.
Several qualities make it admirably fit for curing into prunes. To begin
with, it has a high percentage of sugars and solids so that the plum
cures readily into a firm, sweet, long-keeping prune which in cooking
needs comparatively little sugar; again, the trees bear regularly,
abundantly and the plums are uniform in size,—productiveness, regular
bearing and uniformity of size of fruit being necessary attributes of a
good prune-making plum; lastly, it hangs well on the tree as it ripens
and afterwards so that the curing really begins on the tree. Besides
making most excellent prunes, the Agen is a very good dessert plum—one
of the best—and ought to be in every home orchard and, where it attains
sufficient size, in every commercial plantation. Lack of size is the
defect in this variety which has kept it from being more largely grown
outside of prune-making regions. If by pruning, thinning and other
cultural treatment the size of the plums could be increased, the Agen
should prove a valuable commercial fruit in New York.

The name of this variety is derived from Agen, a region in France where
it is extensively grown. Tradition says that on their return from the
Crusades, the Benedictine monks brought with them from Turkey or Persia
what was then known as the Date plum and planted it in the garden of
their abbey on the River Lot, in the vicinity of Bordeaux, France, and
that afterwards this became the Agen. Its first recorded importation into
the United States was made in 1854 by the United States Patent Office,
though it was described by Prince as early as 1832. The most important
introduction was made, however, in 1856, when Louis Pellier of San Jose,
California, introduced Agen on the Pacific Coast, where it soon became
and still is the leading plum, though with curious persistency the
fruit-growers there call it the “French Prune” and the “Petite Prune.”
In 1862 this variety was added to the fruit catalog list of the American
Pomological Society. There are many strains of Agen in America, due to
the numerous importations of grafts from various parts of France, where
the plum orchards are frequently grown from seedlings or from sprouts;
some of these strains are worthy of varietal recognition.

    Tree of medium size, upright-spreading, dense-topped, hardy,
    very productive; branches ash-gray, smooth, with numerous,
    large, raised lenticels; branchlets slender, short, with short
    internodes, greenish-red changing to dark brownish-drab, dull,
    pubescent, with small lenticels; leaf-buds of medium size and
    length, conical, free.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate or oval, one and three-quarters
    inches wide, three and one-quarter inches long, velvety; upper
    surface with few fine hairs and a narrow, grooved midrib;
    lower surface pale green, thickly pubescent; apex abruptly
    pointed, base acute, margin doubly serrate; petiole one inch
    long, slender, pubescent, tinged red, with two or three small,
    globose, greenish-brown glands usually on the stalk.

    Season of bloom intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across,
    white; borne on lateral spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    five-eighths inch long, thick, glabrous except for a few short
    hairs, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent;
    calyx-lobes obtuse, somewhat pubescent within, with glandular
    margin, reflexed; petals broadly oval or obovate, entire,
    tapering to short, broad claws; anthers yellowish; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the
    stamens in length.

    Fruit late, season short; one and one-half inches by one
    and one-eighth inches in size, obovate, the base necked,
    halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, flaring; suture very
    shallow, indistinct; apex roundish or flattened; color
    reddish or violet-purple, overspread with thin bloom; dots
    numerous, small, brown, obscure, clustered about the apex and
    interspersed between russet flecks; stem thick, seven-eighths
    inch long, glabrous, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin,
    tough; flesh greenish-yellow, tender, sweet, aromatic; very
    good to best; stone semi-free or free, seven-eighths inch by
    one-half inch in size, oval, flattened, with pitted surfaces,
    rather abrupt at the base and apex; ventral suture somewhat
    narrow, furrowed, with distinct wing; dorsal suture widely
    grooved.


AITKIN

_Prunus nigra_

    =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 426. 1896. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:24, 27, 28 fig. 11, 43. 1897. =3.= _Jewell Nur. Cat._
    1899-1906. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 169. 1901. =5.= _Can. Exp.
    Farm Bul._ =43=:29. 1903. =6.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 227. 1904.

    Aitken 4. _Beatty_ 6 incor. Itasca 1 incor.

Aitkin is very favorably mentioned in the references given above and
undoubtedly has value for the Northwest. It was listed in the catalog of
the American Pomological Society in 1899. The variety was found growing
wild in Aitkin County, Minnesota, by D. C. Hazelton on land adjoining
his farm. It seemed to possess merit and was introduced in 1896 by
the Jewell Nursery Company of Lake City, Minnesota. Because of having
originated near Itasca Lake, it has been confused with the Itasca plum,
which preceded it by nearly ten years. The following description is a
compilation:

    Tree vigorous, productive, ripening its wood very early;
    fruit earliest in season of its group; large for its class,
    oval, deep red, with no bloom; skin thin, not astringent;
    flesh yellow, juicy, sweet and rich; good; stone large, oval,
    flattened, clinging.


ALHAMBRA

[_Prunus triflora_ × _Prunus cerasifera_ × _Prunus domestica_] ×
[(_Prunus simonii_ × _Prunus triflora_) × (_Prunus americana_ × _Prunus
nigra_)]

    =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:5. 1898. =2.= De Vries _Plant
    Breeding_ 213. 1907.

Although it is over a decade since Alhambra was offered to fruit-growers,
it has made little headway in popularity and is chiefly of interest
because of its breeding. It is not often that we can trace the pedigree
of a plant for more than one or at the most two generations, but in
Alhambra we are particularly fortunate. Luther Burbank, the originator,
began by crossing Kelsey and Pissardi, and the offspring from this cross
was fertilized with Agen pollen. This tri-hybrid was in turn fertilized
with pollen from a complex hybrid of a cross of _Prunus simonii_ and
_Prunus triflora_ pollinated by a cross of _Prunus americana_ and _Prunus
nigra_. As might be expected, the offspring of this final cross was
extremely variable and from it was selected the Alhambra. The variety was
named by the originator in 1898.

    The fruit as described by Waugh is “egg-shaped, large or
    very large; cavity medium shallow, abruptly rounded; suture
    shallow; apex pointed; color dark, dull red; dots many, small,
    yellowish; bloom thin, purplish; skin firm; flesh yellow
    inside, reddish outside; stone medium to large, flat, pointed,
    nearly smooth, clinging; flavor brisk subacid; quality first
    rate.”


ALTHAM

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =17=:228. 1869. =2.= Lange _Allgem.
    Garten._ =2=:419. 1879. =3.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 432.
    1881. =4.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ 19, Pl. IV. 1882. =5.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 692. 1884. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 420. 1889.
    =7.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ 94, _Pl._ 1894. =8.= _Soc. Nat.
    Hort. France Pom._ 550 fig. 1904. =9.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_
    468, fig. 1906. =10.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 490, fig. 328. 1908.

    _Althan’s Reine Claude_ 6, 7. Althann’s Reine Claude 2, 3,
    4, 6. _Althahn’s Rote Reine-Claude_ 6, 7. _Althann’s Reine
    Claude_ 7. Count Althann’s Gage 5. _Count Althann’s Gage_ 6, 7.
    _Graf Althan’s Reine-Claude_ 6. _Graf Althann’s Reine-Claude_
    7. Hathen’s Red Gage 1. _Reine-Claude Rouge de Hathen_ 1.
    _Reine-Claude d’Althann_ 5, 6, 7. _Reine-Claude Comte Althan_
    5, 6. _Reine-Claude de Comte Hathem_ 5, 6. _Reine-Claude
    du Comte Hathem_ 6, 7. _Reine-Claude du Comte d’Althan_ 8.
    _Reine-Claude Althan’s_ 5, 6, 7. _Reine-Claude Comte d’Althan_
    6. Reine-Claude d’Althan 8. _Reine-Claude d’Althan_ 6, 7, 10.
    _Reine-Claude Rouge Comte Althan_ 6, 7. _Reine-Claude Rouge
    du Comte Hethau_ 6. _Reine-Claude rouge du comte Hethan_ 7.
    _Reinette Claude Comte d’Althan_ 9. _Reinette Claude d’Althan_
    9.

Altham is an excellent plum for dessert or home use. The color is a
trifle too dull for market purposes and yet it is better colored than
McLaughlin, which sells fairly well. The fruit is the type of the last
named plum but is later. In Europe this variety is well known and
highly esteemed for its quality, but unfortunately it is almost unknown
in America. The variety is well worth trial in this country as a fine
plum of the Reine Claude group. Altham is a seedling of Reine Claude,
raised by Herr Prochaska, gardener to Count Michael Joseph Althann,
of Swoyschitz, in Bohemia. It was noted in the _English Journal of
Horticulture_ for 1869 as a new plum sent out by Thomas Rivers.

    Tree of medium size, upright-spreading, dense-topped,
    productive; leaf-scars prominent; leaves folded upward,
    obovate, two and one-quarter inches wide, nearly four inches
    long, very thick, leathery; margin doubly crenate, with few,
    small, dark glands; petiole thick, with from one to four
    globose, yellowish-green glands on the stalk; season of bloom
    intermediate, short; flowers appearing after the leaves, one
    inch across, yellowish at the apex of the petals; borne on
    lateral buds and spurs, singly or in twos.

    Fruit mid-season; one and one-half inches by one and
    five-eighths inches in size, oblate, strongly truncate at
    the base, compressed; color dark purplish-red over a yellow
    ground, covered with thick bloom; dots russet surrounded with
    a dark red ring; stem adhering strongly to the pulp; flesh
    light golden-yellow, firm but tender, sweet, mild, pleasant;
    very good to best; stone semi-clinging, seven-eighths inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, flattened, irregular-oval, with
    pitted surfaces, contracted at the base into a short oblique
    neck; ventral suture prominent, heavily furrowed, often with
    distinct wing; dorsal suture wide, deep.


AMERICA

[Illustration: AMERICA]

_Prunus munsoniana_ × _Prunus triflora_

    =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 3. 1898 =2.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:5. 1898,
    =3.= _Rural N. Y._ =59=:706. 1900. =4.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =14=:273. 1900. =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =205=:37 1903. =6.=
    _Del. Penin. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 36. 1905. =7.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =162=:254, 255. 1905. =8.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:8, 35. 1905.

America is illustrated and described in full chiefly because it is the
most promising cross between _Prunus munsoniana_ and _Prunus triflora_.
The fruit of the variety is unusually attractive in appearance,
golden-yellow with a red cheek and waxy lustre turning currant-red
when ripe, ships exceptionally well and is of very good quality for
cooking, but is without merit as a dessert plum. The trees are large,
very vigorous, as hardy as either of its parents or possibly more so,
and enormously productive. The qualities of fruit and tree are such that
the variety ought to succeed in commercial plantations where any but the
hardiest native plums are cultivated. America is almost phenomenally free
from rot, considering its parentage.

This variety is one of Luther Burbank’s productions, grown from a seed of
Robinson fertilized by pollen from Abundance. It was introduced by the
originator in 1898 and has been since that time well tested at several
places in the eastern states and is very generally well spoken of for a
plum of its kind for the East.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, somewhat open-topped, hardy,
    very productive; branches roughish and with cracked bark,
    slightly zigzag, dark ash-gray, with numerous, conspicuously
    raised lenticels; branchlets willowy, long, with short
    internodes, green with a reddish tinge changing to dark
    chestnut-red, glossy, glabrous, with numerous, small, raised
    lenticels; leaf-buds small, short, conical, free.

    Leaves folded upward, broadly lanceolate, peach-like, one and
    one-half inches wide, three and one-fourth inches long, thin;
    upper surface reddish late in season, smooth and glossy, with
    deeply grooved midrib; lower surface light green, sparingly
    pubescent along the midrib and larger veins which are more or
    less red; apex taper-pointed, base abrupt, margin finely and
    doubly crenate and with numerous, small, dark glands; petiole
    one-half inch long, tinged red, pubescent along one side,
    glandless or with one or two small globose, reddish glands on
    the upper part of the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate and long; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one-half inch across, white; borne in clusters
    on short lateral spurs and buds, in pairs or in threes;
    pedicels five-sixteenths inch long, slender, pubescent, green;
    calyx-tube greenish, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse,
    with a trace of red along the margin, glandular-serrate,
    glabrous, with marginal hairs, erect; petals small, roundish,
    entire, tapering abruptly to narrow claws; anthers yellowish;
    filaments three-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, longer
    than the stamens.

    Fruit early, season of medium length; one and three-eighths
    inches in diameter, roundish-oval, halves equal; cavity
    shallow, flaring; suture shallow, a distinct line; apex
    roundish; color clear, dark, currant-red over golden-yellow,
    mottled, with thin bloom; dots numerous, small, whitish,
    inconspicuous; stem slender, one-half inch long, glabrous,
    adhering to the fruit; skin thin, bitterish, separating readily
    from the pulp; flesh yellow, juicy, fibrous, somewhat tender,
    sweet, not high in flavor; fair in quality; stone clinging,
    seven-eighths inch by one-half inch in size, oval, pointed,
    with pitted surfaces, broadly ridged along the ventral suture;
    dorsal suture grooved.


AMERICAN

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =61=:17, 18. 1900.

    American Seedling 1.

American originated with a Mr. Peterson of Elkton, Douglas County,
Oregon, as a sprout from an old tree. It has never been extensively
disseminated, but seems to be a variety of considerable promise. The
fruit as grown on the Station grounds resembles Hand rather closely; is
large for a plum of its type, is a handsome golden color, is high in
quality and will probably keep and ship well. Too little is known of its
tree-characters to recommend it unqualifiedly.

    Tree above medium in size, vigorous, round-topped, dense,
    productive; branches numerous; branchlets thick, marked
    by grayish scarf-skin; leaves flattened, oval or obovate,
    two and one-quarter inches wide, four and one-half inches
    long, dark green; margin serrate or crenate; blooming season
    intermediate, short; flowers appearing after the leaves, one
    and three-eighths inches across, singly or in twos, fragrant.

    Fruit mid-season; very large, roundish-oblate, truncate,
    golden-yellow, indistinctly streaked with green, mottled,
    covered with thin bloom; flesh light golden-yellow, tender,
    sweet, pleasant flavor; good to very good; stone clinging, one
    inch by three-quarters inch in size, broadly oval, flattened,
    surfaces pitted; dorsal suture wide, deep.


AMERICAN EAGLE

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:36. 1892. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 37. 1899. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 105. 1900. =4.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 142. 1901. =5.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._
    =43=:28. 1903. =6.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254, 255. 1905.

Of the origin of this very good Americana variety little is known except
that it probably came from Missouri, as it was introduced, in the fall of
1859, by the Osceola Nursery Company, Osceola, Missouri. Although an old
variety it was not listed by the American Pomological Society until 1899.
In regions where Americana plums are grown, American Eagle ought to be
better known, its chief defect being the dull color of the fruit.

    Tree vigorous, spreading; leaves large; petiole glandular.
    Fruit mid-season; large, varies from roundish-oval to nearly
    oblate, dark red, covered with thick bloom; stem short,
    pubescent; flesh yellow, juicy, fibrous, sweet, aromatic,
    with characteristic Americana flavor; of good quality; stone
    clinging, three-eighths inch by one-half inch in size,
    roundish, turgid, conspicuously winged; surface smooth.


AMES

[Illustration: AMES]

_Prunus americana_ × _Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:220. 1899. =2.= _Ia. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 112. 1899. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:261. 1900. =4.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 203. 1901. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    293. 1903. =6.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:9. 1905. =7.= _Ill.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 422. 1905. =8.= _Rural N. Y._ =65=:730. 1906.

    _De Soto_ × _Oregon No. 3_ 6. _Japan Hybrid No. 3_ 2.

Though Ames has been known to the public scarcely ten years, its good
qualities have given it relatively high rank among Americana plums with
which it must be compared. Though supposed to be a cross between _Prunus
americana_ and _Prunus triflora_, the variety shows few, if any, traces
of the Triflora parentage, except, possibly in the shape and color of
the fruit. The variety is distinguished from other Americana plums by
reddish dots on the fruit instead of the yellowish dots commonly found
on the plums of this species. The fruit of Ames is very attractive in
color, the quality is fair, it keeps and ships well and it is fairly free
from rot, characters which make it desirable where the native plums are
grown.

This variety was produced by Professor J. L. Budd[204] of Ames, Iowa,
by crossing De Soto with pollen of a “large Japanese plum received from
Oregon.” For a long while it was known as De Soto × Oregon No. 3 and as
Japan Hybrid No. 3, but was named Ames by Professor John Craig, now of
Cornell University.

    Tree of medium size, spreading, dense-topped, hardy,
    productive; branches roughish, thorny, the trunk shaggy, dark
    ash-brown, with numerous, large, raised lenticels; branchlets
    willowy, thick, long, with long internodes, green changing
    to dark chestnut-red, glossy, glabrous, thickly strewn with
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds small, short,
    obtuse, plump, appressed.

    Leaves falling early, flattened, oval, two inches wide,
    four inches long; upper surface dark green, glabrous,
    slightly rugose; lower surface light green, pubescent; apex
    taper-pointed, base abrupt, margin coarsely serrate, the
    serrations ending in hair-like tips, eglandular; petiole
    seven-eighths inch long, slender, pubescent, tinged red,
    glandless or with from one to three globose, greenish-red
    glands.

    Blooming season medium in time and length; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, nearly one inch across, white; borne in
    clusters on lateral buds and spurs, in threes or fours;
    pedicels one-half inch long, slender, glabrous, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow,
    somewhat acute, reflexed, pubescent on the inner surface,
    the margin faintly pubescent and with a trace of red; petals
    small, oval, somewhat dentate, tapering below to long,
    narrow, slightly hairy claws; anthers yellowish; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the
    stamens in length, frequently defective.

    Fruit mid-season, one and seven-sixteenths inches by one
    and five sixteenths inches in size, ovate or oval, sides
    compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, flaring;
    suture a line; apex roundish; color light to dark red over a
    yellow ground, covered with thin bloom; dots numerous, small,
    brownish-red; stem slender, glabrous; skin medium in thickness
    and toughness, adhering; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, coarse,
    fibrous, tender and melting, semi-sweet; of fair quality;
    stone nearly free, one inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    irregular-oval, flattened and elongated at the base, abruptly
    pointed at the apex, very smooth; ventral suture winged and
    furrowed; dorsal suture acute.


APPLE

[Illustration: APPLE]

_Prunus triflora_ ×?

    =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 2. 1898. =2.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:6.
    1898. =3.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:220. 1899. =4.= _Am.
    Gard._ =21=:36. 1900. =5.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 203. 1901. =6.=
    _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:12, 35. 1905. =7.= _Mass. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =17=:161. 1905.

The Apple is a conspicuous plum; its shape, color, size, flavor; its
firm, blood-red flesh and long-keeping quality, all distinguish it. Even
the tree is marked with its robust growth, flat-topped head, peculiar,
light brown bark, handsome foliage and wood that can be propagated from
cuttings with surprising ease. It is difficult to predict the future
of this interesting plum, but probably it will remain for most part a
curiosity. Its peculiar flavor is not pleasant at first taste and it is
doubtful if many will learn to like it. Unpalatability is the defect of
the variety which will most often be counted against it. In general the
Apple is inferior for dessert or kitchen to the Satsuma, itself none
too good, which it most nearly resembles of all plums. In the Station
collection tree and fruit are quite susceptible to both fungus and insect
pests and the fruits ripen unevenly. The fruit of the variety keeps and
ships remarkably well and these qualities may be its saving grace, both
so well developed as to make it valuable for breeding purposes when these
characters are desired.

In his catalog for 1898 Burbank announces the Apple as a new plum and
says, “Among the welcome surprises found three years ago among a lot of
some twenty-five thousand plum seedlings was this one, bearing a cruel
load of enormous plums when only two years old.... It was at once named
Apple from the very close resemblance in form, color general appearance,
and rare keeping qualities.... Its parentage is not known, except that
it is a second generation seedling from cross-bred seedlings, and no
doubt Satsuma and probably Robinson are in its line of ancestry.” Satsuma
characters are readily detected in tree and fruit and especially its
hard, red flesh, but in no way is its descent from Robinson apparent.

    Tree of medium size, flat-topped, spreading, dense-topped,
    slow-growing, semi-hardy, productive; branches rough and
    thorny, with numerous fruit-spurs, dark ash-gray, reddish and
    with numerous lenticels; branchlets often with a rosette of
    flower-buds on the apex of the shoots, slender, with short
    internodes, greenish-red changing to dark brown, glossy,
    glabrous, with numerous, conspicuous, large, raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, plump, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate or oblanceolate, one and
    one-quarter inches wide, three and three-quarters inches
    long, thin, leathery; upper surface purplish-red late in the
    season, glossy, glabrous, with grooved midrib; lower surface
    light green, pubescent at the base of the veins; apex acutely
    pointed, base cuneate, margin finely and doubly crenate and
    with small amber glands; petiole five-eighths inch long,
    pubescent, red along one side, with from three to ten large,
    conspicuous, reniform, red or yellowish glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season early and of medium length; flowers appearing
    before the leaves, white; borne in clusters on lateral buds
    and spurs, in threes or fours; pedicels medium in length and
    thickness, glabrous; calyx-tube obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    narrow, obtuse, glandular-ciliate, glabrous, erect; petals
    oval, entire, short-clawed; anthers yellowish; filaments of
    medium length; pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens, often
    defective.

    Fruit mid-season; one and one-half inches long, one and
    three-quarters inches wide, roundish-oblate, compressed,
    halves equal; cavity medium in depth and width, flaring,
    with concentric russet rings; suture shallow; apex depressed
    and at one side; color dull dark red, with waxy bloom; dots
    numerous, large, russet, conspicuous, clustered about the apex;
    stem five-eighths inch long, glabrous; skin tough, bitterish,
    separating from the pulp; flesh dark red, juicy, firm but
    tender, sweet, with pleasant mild flavor, aromatic; good; stone
    clinging, three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    oval or obovate, turgid, pointed, roughish, winged on the
    ventral, deeply furrowed on the dorsal suture.


APRICOT

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_
    209. 1676. =3.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 67, 69. 1699. =4.=
    Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:93, Pl. XIII. 1768. =5.= Knoop
    _Fructologie_ =2=:52, 53, 54. 1771. =6.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._
    =2=:28, Tab. 173 fig. 1; =2=:34, Tab. 183 fig. 1. 1796. =7.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ 71. 1832. =8.= Kenrick Am. _Orch._ 255.
    1832. =9.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 327. 1849. =10.= Elliott
    _Fr. Book_ 424. 1854. =11.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._
    =2=:498. 1860. =12.= _Downing Fr. Trees Am._ 896, 952. 1869.
    =13.= _Mas Pom. Gen._ =2=:133. 1873. =14.= _Le Bon Jard._ 338.
    1882. =15.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 684, 1884. =16.= Mathieu _Nom.
    Pom._ 421, 431, 454. 1889.

    Apricocke 1. Apricock Plum 2. Abricot de France 5. _Abricot
    Blanc_ 16. _Abricot Blanche_ 5. Abricot ordinaire 5. _Abricote_
    5. _Abricote blanc_ 7, 12. Abricotée 4, 13. _Abricotée_ 6,
    7, 10, 12, 16. _Abricotée Perdrigon_ 6. _Abricotée Blanche_
    7, 12, 15, 16. Apricot Plum of Tours 7. _Abricote de Tours_
    7. _Abricotée de Tours_ 7, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16. Apricot Plum
    8. _Apricot Plum of Tours_ 10, 12, 16. _Abricotée Blanc_ 12.
    _Aprikosenartige Pflaume_ 13. _Apricot_ 13. Aprikosenartige
    Pflaume 16. _Apricot Plum_ 16. _Aprikosen Perdrigon_ 16.
    Die Abrikosenartige Pflaume 6. Die Morillenpflaume 6.
    _French Apricot_ 9. _Frühe Gelbe Kaiser Pflaume_ 16. _Gelbe
    Apricosenartige Pflaume_ 13. _Gelbe Dauphins_ 16. _Gelbe
    Reine-Claude_ 16. Gelbe Aprikosenpflaume 16. _Lieflander
    Gelbe Pflaume_ 16. _Morillen Pflaume_ 16. _Old Apricot_ 12,
    13, 15, 16. Prune-Abricot 11. Prune Abricotée 14. Prune
    Abricotée Blanche 11. _Prune Abricotée de Tours_ 8. _Prune
    Abricote_ 8. _Prune d’Abricot Ordinaire_ 5. _Prune d’Abricot
    Blanch_ 5. _Prune d’Abricot bigarree_ 5. _Prune d’Abricot
    de France_ 5. _Prune d’Abricot_ 16. _Red Apricot_ 10 incor.
    _Reine-Claudenartige Aprikosen Pflaume_ 16. _Susina Massina
    Piccola_ 16. _The New Apricot Plum_ 16. _Virginale_ 5. White
    Apricot Plum 7, 12. _Wahre Aprikosen Pflaume_ 16. White apricot
    12, 16. _Weisse Aprikosen Pflaume_ 16. _Yellow Apricot_ 10, 12,
    13, 15, 16.

Since John Parkinson described the “Apricocke” plum in 1629, several
types of this variety have appeared in literature and these have become
so badly confused that it is impossible to separate them. However, as
the variety is nearly extinct, and will probably never be revived, this
confusion is happily of historic rather than of economic interest. Nearly
all writers recognize at least two types, one of which is superior to the
other. The better of these can readily be identified as the “Abricotée”
of Duhamel, and should be considered the true Apricot. Little is known of
the early history of this variety other than that it was very generally
distributed throughout Europe early in the Seventeenth Century. The
American Pomological Society rejected Apricot in 1858, though it is
doubtful if they had the true type. This variety is not to be confused
with the _Prunus simonii_, commonly called “Apricot,” or the native plum
of that name.

    The following description is compiled: tree large, vigorous,
    productive; fruit mid-season; large, roundish or slightly
    elongated, with prominent suture, yellow, blushed with red,
    overspread with thin bloom; flesh yellow, sweet, pleasant,
    slightly musky; good; stone small, free.


ARCH DUKE

[Illustration: ARCH DUKE]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 684. 1884. =2.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc.
    Rpt._ 35. 1891. =3.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 45. 1895. =4.= _W.
    N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =42=:83. 1897. =5.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =131=:182. 1897. =6.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:241, 242. 1899.
    =7.= _Ibid._ =187=:77, 78. 1901. =8.= _Waugh Plum Cult._ 95.
    1901. =9.= _Thompson Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:156 1901. =10.= _Ohio
    Sta. Bul._ =162=:242, 243 fig., 254, 255. 1905.

    _Late Diamond_ 1.

Arch Duke ought to become one of the leading plums for the market in
New York. The qualities which fit it for a high place among commercial
varieties are: large size, handsome color—a rich, dark purple with thick
bloom—and firmness of flesh and skin so that it both keeps and ships
well. The accompanying color-plate does not do the variety justice,
either in beauty, color or size of fruit. Arch Duke compared with Grand
Duke, known by all plum-growers, is nearly as large, neck thicker, the
same color, bloom heavier, quality higher, flesh firmer, stone free and
ripens earlier. The tree-characters, like the fruit-characters, are
all good. While this variety is suitable for both home and market use
it appears after a thorough test in many parts of the State for nearly
twenty years to be especially well adapted for a market fruit.

Arch Duke was raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from seed
of De Montfort, and was sent out in 1883. It was first noted in America
by the Ontario Fruit Growers’ Association in 1891 and was imported into
the United States by S. D. Willard[205] of Geneva, New York, about 1892.

    Tree of medium size, upright-spreading, hardy in New York
    except in exposed locations, very productive; branches smooth,
    dark ash-gray, with small, raised lenticels; branchlets of
    medium thickness and length, with long internodes, greenish-red
    changing to brownish-red, glossy, covered thinly with bloom
    and with sparse pubescence; lenticels numerous, very small,
    obscure; leaf-buds large, long, pointed, free; leaf-scars
    swollen.

    Leaves folded upward, oval or obovate, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, three and five-eighths inches long, thickish,
    stiff; upper surface dark green, glossy, glabrous, with grooved
    midrib; lower surface silvery-green, sparingly pubescent; apex
    and base acute, margin doubly serrate, with small, dark glands;
    petiole three-quarters inch long, pubescent along one side,
    tinged red, usually with two large, globose, greenish-yellow
    glands on the stalk or on the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across,
    in the bud creamy-yellow changing to white when expanded; borne
    in scattering clusters on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in
    pairs; pedicels nine-sixteenths inch long, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube greenish, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse,
    pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate and with marginal
    hairs, slightly reflexed; petals obovate or oval, crenate, with
    short, broad claws; anthers yellowish, with a trace of pink;
    filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to
    the stamens in length.

    Fruit late, season very short; one and three-quarters inches
    by one and three-eighths inches in size, long-oval, slightly
    compressed and necked; cavity shallow, narrow, compressed,
    abrupt; suture shallow and rather broad, prominent; apex
    elongated; color reddish-purple changing to dark blue at full
    maturity, overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous, small,
    brownish-russet, inconspicuous; stem often inserted at one side
    of the base, five-eighths inch long, glabrous, adhering well to
    the fruit; skin tough, adhering; flesh deep golden-yellow often
    a little reddish, juicy, coarse, firm, but somewhat tender,
    sweet, pleasant and sprightly; good; stone free, the cavity
    larger than the pit, one and one-eighth inches by five-eighths
    inch in size, long-oval, necked, abruptly tipped at the apex,
    often reddish, rough; ventral suture broad, blunt, slightly
    furrowed; dorsal suture with an indistinct shallow groove.


ARCTIC

[Illustration: ARCTIC]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3d App. 182. 1881. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 38. 1881. =3.= _Country Gent._ =49=:106. 1884. =4.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 96. 1887. =5.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 289,
    290. 1889. =6.= _Gard. & For._ =6=:526. 1892. =7.= _Can. Hort._
    =16=:301. 1893. =8.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =103=:35. 1894. =9.=
    _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 120. 1896. =10.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =131=:189. 1897. =11.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:160. 1899. =12.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:241, 242. 1899. =13.= _Can. Exp. Farm
    Bul._ =43=:33. 1903. =14.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 304.
    1903. =15.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:278. 1904. =16.= _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.

    Moore Arctic 8, 15. Moore’s Arctic 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10,
    11, 16. _Moore’s Arctic_, 13, 14.

Arctic is very generally supposed to be preeminent in two qualities,
hardiness and productiveness. On the grounds of this Station it is
both hardy and productive and from its behavior here it might well be
recommended for these qualities, but as to its hardiness elsewhere
pomologists do not agree. In the references given above, Downing says it
is the hardiest plum known; in Michigan it is reported very tender in the
nursery row; a Canadian writer says it is not hardy enough for Canada;
and it is reputed in the prairie states to be not hardier than Lombard.
The place of its origin, where few plums are grown, and the fact that it
is one of but few that can be grown in parts of Canada and New Brunswick
establish the claim that it is one of the hardiest of the Domesticas,
possibly not more so, however, than Lombard, Voronesh and a few others.
The small size and mediocre quality of the fruit and the dwarfish trees
should rule Arctic out where less hardy varieties can be grown.

This variety was first noted in 1881 by Downing who says it originated
on the grounds of A. T. Moore, Ashland, Maine, about forty miles
north of Bangor. The parentage of Arctic is unknown. According to the
originator, it was grown from a seed of a medium sized blue plum bought
at a fruit-stand in Boston. In 1881 Arctic was added to the American
Pomological Society catalog, where it still remains.

    Tree small, of medium vigor, upright-spreading, very hardy,
    productive, an early bearer, subject to attacks of fungi;
    branches somewhat rough, dark ash-gray, with small lenticels;
    branchlets strongly inclined to develop spurs and blossom-buds,
    short, slender, with short internodes, greenish-red changing
    to dark brownish-drab, dull, sparingly pubescent, with
    inconspicuous, raised lenticels; leaf-buds short, obtuse,
    appressed.

    Leaves obovate or oval, two inches wide, three and
    three-eighths inches long; upper surface dark green, covered
    with numerous hairs, the midrib grooved; lower surface
    silvery-green, pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or acute, base
    acute, margin finely serrate, with small, black glands; petiole
    five-eighths inch long, tinged red, pubescent, with from one to
    four globose, green glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season of medium length; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one and three-sixteenths inches across, in the
    bud creamy-yellow changing to white as the petals expand;
    borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in
    pairs; pedicels five-eighths inch long, pubescent, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes narrow,
    obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces, serrate, with ciliate
    margins, reflexed; petals narrow-obovate or oval, crenate,
    short-clawed; anthers yellowish; filaments one-half inch long;
    pistil pubescent at the base, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; one and three-eighths
    inches by one and one-quarter inches in size, oval or ovate,
    slightly swollen on the suture side, compressed, halves equal;
    cavity very shallow and narrow, abrupt; suture shallow,
    indistinct; apex roundish; color dark purple becoming
    purplish-black at full maturity, covered with thick bloom;
    dots numerous, small, russet, inconspicuous, clustered about
    the apex; stem slender, seven-eighths inch long, pubescent,
    adhering to the fruit; skin of medium thickness and toughness,
    separating readily; flesh light yellow, juicy, coarse and
    fibrous, somewhat firm but tender, sweetish, mild; fair
    in quality; stone nearly free, characteristically small,
    seven-eighths inch by one-half inch in size, oval, flattened at
    the apex, acute at the base, rough and pitted; ventral suture
    ridged, faintly winged; dorsal suture broadly and shallowly
    grooved.


ARKANSAS

[Illustration: ARKANSAS]

_Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 162. 1881. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =38=:60, 86. 1892. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:478. 1894. =4.=
    _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:27. 1897. =5.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 192,
    194 fig. 1901. =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 293. 1903.
    =7.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 488. 1904.

    Arkansas Lombard 1, 2, 3, 4, 7. _Arkansas Lombard_ 5, 6.

Arkansas, as the synonymy shows, originally, and even now, usually has
Lombard as a suffix, but the name is misleading as the plum is in no
wise like a Lombard and following the rules of the American Pomological
Society it has been dropped in _The Plums of New York_. On the grounds of
this Station, Arkansas is one of the most valuable plums of its species,
being unusually attractive in size, color and shape and one of the best
in quality of its kind. Its chief fault is a lack of robustness in the
tree. While it would not prove profitable as a market plum in New York,
it could be well planted in a commercial orchard in regions where native
plums must be grown, and in New York it would at least add a pleasing
variety to any collection of plums. This variety was brought to notice by
T. V. Munson in 1881. It originated in Arkansas and was introduced by J.
D. Morrow & Sons of that state.

    Tree small, flattened, spreading, dense-topped, symmetrical,
    hardy, productive, somewhat subject to shot-hole fungus;
    trunk shaggy; branches rough, zigzag, sparingly thorny, dark
    ash-gray, with numerous lenticels; branchlets slender, with
    very short internodes, greenish-red changing to reddish-brown,
    glossy, glabrous, with few, conspicuous, raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, free.

    Leaves folded upward, lanceolate, peach-like, one and
    one-quarter inches wide, three and one-half inches long, thin;
    upper surface light green, smooth, glabrous, with grooved
    midrib; lower surface pale green, sparingly pubescent along the
    midrib and larger veins; apex taper-pointed, base acute, margin
    finely serrate, with light brown glands; petiole one-half inch
    long, slender, pubescent on one side, dull red, with from one
    to six small, globose, yellow or brownish-red glands.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, five-eighths inch across, in the buds creamy-yellow
    changing to white as they unfold; with a strong disagreeable
    odor; borne in very dense clusters on lateral buds and spurs,
    in threes or fours; pedicels one-half inch long, slender,
    glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes short, sparingly pubescent on the inner surface,
    glandular-serrate, faintly hairy and with a trace of red on
    the margin, erect; petals obovate, crenate, with narrow claws,
    somewhat hairy at the base; anthers yellowish; filaments nearly
    one-quarter inch in length; pistil glabrous, slightly shorter
    than the stamens.

    Fruit early, season very long; one inch by seven-eighths inch
    in size, roundish-ovate, halves slightly unequal; cavity
    shallow, flaring, regular; suture an indistinct line; apex
    roundish or pointed; color bright currant-red, with thin
    bloom; dots smallish, white, conspicuous, clustered about the
    apex; stem very slender, five-eighths inch long, glabrous, not
    adhering to the fruit; skin thin, tough, bitter, separating
    readily; flesh orange-yellow, juicy, fibrous, somewhat tender
    and melting, sweet at the skin but sour at the center,
    aromatic; good; stone clinging, three-quarters inch by one-half
    inch in size, oval, flattened and prolonged at the base,
    sharp-tipped at the apex; ventral suture acute, faintly ridged;
    dorsal suture acute.


AUTUMN COMPOTE

[Illustration: AUTUMN COMPOTE]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ =2=:533. 1855. =2.= _Gard. Chron._
    =26=:364. 1866. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 351. 1866. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 897. 1869. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:71, fig.
    36. 1866-73. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 685. 1884. =7.= Thompson
    _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:156. 1901.

    _Autumn Compote_ 5. Compote d’Automne 5.

This plum is well and favorably known in England, but it is scarcely
grown in America, though it has much in the character of its fruit at
least to recommend it. The plums are attractive in appearance and while
not of the highest flavor are yet far above the average in the qualities
which make a good dessert fruit, while for culinary purposes it ranks
among the best. The trees are productive, hardy and fairly vigorous and
may be especially noted as holding their crop well. Autumn Compote is a
seedling of Cooper, raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England,
about 1840.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, spreading, rather low and
    open-topped, hardy, very productive; branches smooth, dark
    brownish-gray, with lenticels intermediate in number and size;
    branchlets few, slender, very short, with long internodes,
    greenish-red changing to dark brownish-red, dull, sparingly
    pubescent early in the season, becoming heavily pubescent
    later, with few, inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds
    long, pointed, free.

    Leaves drooping, folded backward, long-oval or obovate, two and
    one-eighth inches wide, four and one-fourth inches long, thick;
    upper surface dark green, smooth, hairy, with deeply grooved
    midrib; lower surface pale green, pubescent; apex acute, base
    tapering, margin crenate, eglandular; petiole thick, one-half
    inch long, tinged red, glandless or with from one to four
    globose, greenish-yellow, large glands usually on the stalk.

    Season of bloom medium, short; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one and one-quarter inches across, in the
    buds creamy-yellow changing to white as the flowers open;
    borne in clusters on short lateral spurs, singly or in
    pairs; pedicels nearly one-half inch long, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube greenish, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    broad, obtuse, glandular-serrate, sparingly pubescent on both
    surfaces, reflexed; petals oval, narrowly dentate, with very
    short and broad claws; anthers yellowish; filaments nearly
    seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit late, ripening period of medium length; one and
    five-eighths inches by one and three-eighths inches in size,
    oval or slightly ovate, halves unequal; cavity shallow, narrow,
    abrupt; suture shallow, a distinct line; apex roundish or
    slightly pointed; color purplish-red over a yellow ground,
    covered with bloom of medium thickness; dots numerous,
    small, light russet, conspicuous; stem glabrous, adhering
    to the fruit; skin thin, tender, separating readily; flesh
    golden-yellow, dry, firm but tender, sweet, not high in flavor;
    fair in quality; stone clinging but not tenaciously, one inch
    by five-eighths inch in size, irregularly and broadly ovate,
    flattened, roughish, slightly compressed and necked at the
    base, blunt or acute at the apex; ventral suture narrow,
    winged, strongly furrowed; dorsal suture acute or faintly
    furrowed.


BARTLETT

_Prunus triflora_ × _Prunus simonii_

    =1.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 53. 1897. =2.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._
    =67=:7. 1898. =3.= Burbank _Cat._ 1899. =4.= _Can. Hort._
    =25=:411. 1902. =5.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:6. 1905. =6.= De
    Vries _Plant Breeding_ 226. 1907.

Bartlett was grown by Burbank from a cross of _Prunus simonii_ with
Delaware, the latter one of his earliest hybrids. The originator
disposed of the variety in 1899 and it immediately became popular with
nurserymen and was soon offered for sale in all parts of the United
States. Fruit-growers have not received it so well, however, and most
of those who have tried it have discarded it or hold the variety as a
curiosity. The fruit is attractive in appearance and the Bartlett pear
flavor is agreeable, but the skin cracks badly in this State and the
flesh is too soft for shipping. The tree with its stiff, upright branches
resembles a Lombardy poplar and with its bright, glossy green foliage is
an attractive ornamental. It is still further peculiar in bearing thick
clusters of flowers at the ends of lateral spurs.

    Tree lacking in size and vigor, upright, open-topped, not very
    hardy, productive; branches rough, with numerous fruit-spurs;
    branchlets slender, short, glabrous throughout the season;
    leaf-buds plump; leaves folded upward, oblanceolate, one and
    one-half inches wide, three and one-quarter inches long, thin;
    margin finely serrate, in two series, eglandular or with small,
    dark glands; petiole slender, with from one to four small
    glands; blooming season early, long; flowers appearing before
    the leaves.

    Fruit very early; one and three-eighths inches by one and
    one-quarter inches in size, long-cordate to slightly oval,
    dark purplish-red over yellow, covered with thick bloom;
    skin tender, bitter; flesh yellow, not very juicy, tender,
    sweet, with a peculiar but pleasant flavor; of good quality;
    stone clinging, seven-eighths inch by one-half inch in size,
    elongated-ovate, narrow, blunt at the base, long drawn out at
    the apex, the surfaces rough.


BASSETT

_Prunus maritima_

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:335. 1875. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =38=:75. 1892. =3.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 214. 1898. =4.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 229. 1901. =5.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254,
    255. 1905. =6.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:10. 1905.

    Bassett’s American 2, 3. _Bassett’s American_ 4.

Bassett, the best known of the few cultivated varieties of _Prunus
maritima_, was found growing wild in New Jersey and was turned over to
a nurseryman, Wm. F. Bassett of Hamilton, New Jersey, who introduced it
in 1872. After its introduction it became somewhat popular in the West,
gaining quite a reputation as being “curculio proof,” However, its marked
inferiority to varieties of other species, in both size and quality, has
now banished it from all commercial plantings. The following description
is compiled.

    Tree vigorous, spreading. Fruit late mid-season; very small,
    roundish, dull red, covered with thin bloom; skin thick, tough;
    flesh greenish-yellow; quality poor; stone of medium size,
    roundish, smooth, free.


BAVAY

[Illustration: BAVAY]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =6=:65. 1846. =2.= _Mag. Hort._ =12=:340.
    1846. =3.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:527. 1846. =4.= Lee _Gen.
    Farmer_ =10=:241. 1849. =5.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 328.
    1849. =6.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 423. 1854. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 210. 1856. =8.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 370. fig. 1857.
    =9.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 190, Pl. XII. 1865. =10.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 379. 1866. =11.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 897. 1869.
    =12.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 6. 1871. =13.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =6=:93, fig. 47. 1866. =14.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
    437. 1881. =15.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 363. 1887. =16.=
    _Rev. Hort._ 515. 1888. =17.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889.
    =18.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =129=:32, 33. 1896. =19.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =131=:191. 1897. =20.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:241, 242.
    1899. =21.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 96. 1901. =22.= _Va. Sta. Bul._
    =134=:40. 1902. =23.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:241. 1905.

    _Bavay’s Green Gage_ 17, 21. Bavay’s Green Gage 11. _Bavay’s
    renkloie_ 12. Bavay’s Reine Claude 17. _Bavays Reine-Claude_
    13. _De Bavay_ 15. _Monstreuse de Bavay_ 15. _Monstrueuse de
    Bavay_ 10, 11, 12, 17. _Prune de Bavay_ 12, 17. Queen Claude
    of Bavay 6. _Reine Claude_ 21, 23. Reine-Claude de Bavay 2,
    3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16, 19. _Reine-Claude de
    Bavay_ 6, 11, 13, 17, 18, 21. Reine-Claude Monstreuse de
    Bavey 1. _Reine-Claude Monot_ 17. Reine-Claude von Bavays 14.
    _St. Claire_ 10. _Saint Clair_ 11, 17. _Sainte-Claire_ 17.
    _Saint-Claire_ 12.

Bavay is one of the best of the green plums—a worthy rival in all
respects and in some superior to its parent Reine Claude. It is
unexcelled as a dessert plum and its delicious flavor is retained in
cooking, making the somewhat rare combination of a first rate dessert
and a first rate culinary fruit. Bavay is not only satisfactory in the
qualities which make it desirable to the consumer but it is a good
market plum for it both keeps and ships well. The flavor is not quite
equal to that of Reine Claude, one of the best of all plums in quality,
but in tree-characters the Bavay surpasses the older variety. The trees
bear young, annually and heavily, sometimes too heavily, and while not
as hardy, as large, as robust or as long-lived as could be wished, yet
in these respects they are superior to those of most of the varieties
of Reine Claude plums. Some horticulturists recommend that the Bavay
be top-worked on a more vigorous, hardy and longer-lived stock but the
behavior of trees so treated in this vicinity makes top-working a very
doubtful expedient. Lombard is usually recommended as a stock upon
which to work it. Bavay is indispensable in home orchards and can be
recommended for much more general planting in commercial orchards.

This variety is a seedling of Reine Claude produced by Major Esperin of
Malines, Belgium, about 1832, and dedicated by him in 1843, to M. De
Bavay, Director of the Royal Nurseries, at Vilvordes, near Brussels.
Though this variety is distinct from its parent in tree-characters, in
having a later season, smaller fruit and a different flavor, the two
plums have become confused by many nurserymen and horticulturists. In
1856, the American Pomological Society placed Bavay on its fruit catalog
list where it still remains.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    hardy, very productive, somewhat susceptible to sunscald;
    branches smooth except for the few, large, raised lenticels,
    light ash-gray; branchlets medium in thickness and length, with
    internodes of variable length, dull brownish-red, pubescent,
    with numerous, inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds large,
    long, pointed, appressed.

    Leaves folded backward, oval, or slightly obovate, wide, long,
    thick; upper surface nearly smooth, covered sparsely with
    hairs; lower surface thickly pubescent, especially along the
    midrib and larger veins; apex acute; margin crenate, glandless;
    petiole thick, long, tinged lightly with red, glandless or with
    from one to three globose, greenish-yellow glands on the stalk
    or base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across,
    whitish or creamy at the apex of the petals; borne on lateral
    buds and spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels three-eighths inch
    long, pubescent, green; calyx-tube greenish, obconic, pubescent
    at the base; calyx-lobes rather broad, obtuse, pubescent on
    both surfaces, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals broadly
    obovate, crenate, tapering below to short, broad claws; anthers
    yellowish; filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil pubescent
    on the ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit late, season long; of medium size, roundish-oval, halves
    equal; cavity intermediate in depth and width, abrupt; suture
    a line; apex roundish; color greenish-yellow changing to dark
    straw-yellow, obscurely streaked and splashed, covered with
    thin bloom; dots numerous, small, grayish, obscure, clustered
    about the apex; stem thick, short, pubescent, adhering well
    to the fruit; skin rather tough, separating readily; flesh
    rich golden-yellow, juicy, slightly fibrous, tender, sweet,
    pleasant flavor; very good; stone free, seven-eighths inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, oval, slightly necked, blunt at
    the apex, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture winged, deeply
    furrowed; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


BEJONNIERES

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 898. 1869. =2.= _Cat. Cong. Pom.
    France_ 472. 1887. =3.= _Ibid._ 453. 1906.

    Des Béjonnières 2, 3. _Prune des Béjonnières_ 1.

This variety is so highly prized in France that it is here recommended
for trial even though the trees as they grow in this part of New York
have not been productive. It is too small for a dessert plum but might
become of value here if used as in France for tarts, spices, preserves
and drying. The plum originated about 1827 in the nursery of Andre Leroy,
Béjonnieres, Angers, France.

    Tree medium in size and vigor, upright-spreading, unproductive;
    leaf-scars swollen; leaves oval, medium in width and length;
    margin with small dark glands, finely serrate; petiole with
    none or from one to six glands, usually on the stalk; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, tinged creamy-white as they open;
    borne on lateral buds and spurs, in pairs or in threes.

    Fruit late, season of medium length; one and three-eighths
    inches by one and one-quarter inches in size, obovate, a little
    necked, yellow, blotched with red on the exposed cheek, covered
    with thin bloom; stem long; apex strongly depressed; flesh pale
    yellow, firm but tender, sweet, aromatic; very good; stone
    semi-clinging, three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size,
    oval.


BELGIAN PURPLE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing =Fr. Trees Am.= 373. 1857, =2.= Hogg _Fruit Man._
    351. 1866. =3.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 27. 1871. =4.= Mas _Le
    Verger_ =6=:105. 1866-73. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1877.
    =6.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 340. 1887. =7.= _Guide Prat._
    153, 352. 1895.

    _Bleue de Perk_ 4. _Bleue de Bergues_ 3, 7. _Bleue de Belgique_
    1, 7. _Bleu de Perque_ 1. _Blaue von Belgien_ 4, 7. _Bleu de
    Bergues_ 6. _Bleu de Peck_ 6. _Belgian Purple_ 4, 6, 7. Bleue
    de Belgique 7. _Belgische Damascene_ 7. _Bleue de Perck_ 7.
    Bleu de Belgique 6. _Fertheringham_ 3 incor. Prune Bleue de
    Belgique 3.

Belgian Purple is a medium grade plum of little value for dessert but
rather highly esteemed for culinary purposes, especially in Europe. It
probably has but a small place in American pomology. Concerning the
origin of the variety, nothing is known although it is generally believed
to have originated in Belgium prior to 1850.

    Tree large, vigorous, round and dense-topped, not always
    hardy, very productive; branchlets numerous, thick, pubescent
    throughout the season; leaf-scars prominent; leaves flattened
    or folded upward, oval, one and five-eighths inches wide, three
    and one-half inches long; margin serrate or crenate; petiole
    five-eighths inch long, glandless or with from one to two small
    glands usually at the base of the leaf; flowers nearly one inch
    across, white, with a peculiar greenish and creamy tinge near
    the apex of the petals and often splashed with pink towards
    the base; borne on lateral buds and spurs; calyx-tube thickly
    pubescent.

    Fruit mid-season; medium to below in size, roundish-oval,
    purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; flesh rich,
    golden-yellow, medium juicy, firm, sweet, mild; fair to good;
    stone nearly free, of medium size, oval, flattened, often with
    a distinct wing.


BELLE

[Illustration: BELLE]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Horticulturist_ =10=:71. 1855. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 394. 1857. =3.= _Flor. & Pom._ 144, Pl. 1863. =4.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 351, 384. 1866. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:27,
    fig. 14. 1866-73. =6.= _Le Bon Jard._ 341. 1882. 7. Barry
    _Fr. Garden_ 410. 1883. 8. Decaisne & Naudin _Man. Am. des
    Jard._ =4=:382. =9.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449, 451. 1889. =10.=
    _Garden_ =50=:295. 1896. =11.= Rivers _Cat._ 33. 1898. =12.=
    Fish _Hardy-Fr. Bk._ =2=:55. =13.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_
    =4=:156. 1901. =14.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 96. 1901.

    Autumn Beauty 11. _Autumn Beauty_ 9. _Belle de Septembre_ 9,
    11, 14. Belle de Septembre 1, 3, 4, 7, 10, 12, 13. _Gros Rouge
    de Septembre_ 3, 4, 9. _Lawrence Early_ 9. _Regina nova_ 6.
    _Reine-Claude Rouge_ 9. _Reine-Claude Rouge de Septembre_ 5, 9.
    Reine-Claude Rouge of September 2. Reine-Claude Rouge de Van
    Mons 5, 6, 8. _Reine-Claude Rouge de Van Mons_ 9. _Reine-Claude
    Rouge Van Mons_ 4, 9. _Reine Nova_ (Berre) 9. _Reina Nova_ 2,
    3, 4, 9. _Rote Claude_ 9. _Reine Nova_ 9. _Schöne September
    Königspflaume_ 9. Van Mons Königspflaume 9. _Van Mons
    Königspflaume_ 5. _Van Mons Red_ 9. Van Mons’ Red 4. _Van Mons
    Red Gage_ 5, 9.

Belle is an unusually large, handsome plum but unfortunately is not of
very high quality. It is much like Pond but is brighter red, a little
smaller, less necked, the stem is shorter, the apex more blunt and it
is more of a clingstone. European authorities say that Belle is second
to none for culinary purposes and its handsome appearance gives it
value across the seas as a dessert plum. As Belle grows on the grounds
of this Station—it seems not to be found elsewhere in New York—the
tree-characters are quite above those in the average variety of plums and
when considered with the fine, late fruits, indicate that the variety
might be grown with profit for market purposes. It well deserves to be
tried by commercial plum-growers.

Belle came from Brussels, Belgium, and was propagated by the famous
horticulturist, Van Mons. Nothing further is known of its origin.

    Tree above medium in size, vigorous, upright, open-topped,
    hardy, productive; branches smooth, dull dark ash-gray, with
    small, numerous, raised lenticels; branchlets thick, with short
    internodes, green changing to brownish-red, often marked with
    scarf-skin, dull, very pubescent early in the season becoming
    less pubescent as maturity advances, with numerous, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds of medium size and length, conical, free.

    Leaves flattened or folded upward, obovate, one and
    seven-eighths inches wide, four and one-half inches long,
    thick, leathery; upper surface dark green, with deeply
    grooved midrib, sparingly hairy; lower surface silvery-green,
    pubescent; apex acute, base cuneate, margin shallowly but
    broadly crenate, with few small dark glands; petiole one and
    one-eighth inches long, thick, pubescent, tinged with light
    red, glandless or with one or two small, globose, yellowish
    glands on the stalk or base of the leaf.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one and one-eighth inches across, the buds cream-tipped
    changing to white on expanding; borne on lateral buds and
    spurs, usually singly; pedicels about seven-sixteenths
    inch long, thick, pubescent, green; calyx-tube greenish,
    campanulate, glabrous except towards the base; calyx-lobes
    above medium in width, obtuse, slightly pubescent on both
    surfaces, glandular-serrate, erect; petals broadly ovate,
    crenate, with short, broad claws; anthers yellowish; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the
    stamens in length.

    Fruit late, season of medium length; one and seven-eighths
    inches by one and three-quarters inches in size, roundish-oval,
    slightly compressed, halves nearly equal; cavity shallow,
    flaring; suture shallow, rather wide, prominent; apex roundish
    or depressed; color light purplish-red over a greenish-yellow
    ground, overspread with thin bloom; dots numerous, small,
    russet, inconspicuous; stem one-half inch long, thickly
    pubescent, adhering strongly to the fruit, with fleshy ring
    about the base; skin of average thickness and toughness, sour,
    separating from the pulp; flesh pale yellow, juicy, coarse,
    firm, sweet at the skin, but tart at the center, pleasant,
    aromatic; good; stone clinging, one and three-sixteenths inches
    by three-quarters inch in size, oval, turgid, blunt at the
    apex, with rough and pitted surfaces; ventral suture winged,
    with few but prominent ridges; dorsal suture widely and deeply
    grooved.


BERCKMANS

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 53, 99. 1889. =2.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =62=:20. 1894. =3.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 95. 1895.
    =4.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:43, 44. 1896. =5.= _Rural N.
    Y._ =56=:614. 1897. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 26. 1897. =7.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:138, 143. 1899. =8.= _Rural N. Y._
    =62=:582. 1903. =9.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:9, 28. 1905.

    _Botan_ of some 2, 4. Botan White 6. Sweet Botan 1. _Sweet
    Botan_ 2, 3, 4. _True Sweet Botan_ 2, 4, 9. White-fleshed Botan
    1. _White-fleshed Botan_ 2, 4, 8, 9.

This variety was introduced by Luther Burbank in 1887 from imported
stock. P. J. Berckmans[206] of Augusta, Georgia, who had secured some
Botan trees from Burbank, noted that this plum differed from the rest
and, in order to distinguish it, named it Sweet Botan. The nomenclature
of Botan was confused and indefinite and Bailey, in 1894, renamed the new
plum Berckmans. As it is very similar to Abundance, still more confusion
has arisen in regard to it. Compared with Abundance, Berckmans is more
spreading in growth; fruit less pointed, with dryer and more insipid
flesh; color brighter red and the stone usually freer; but it is neither
as productive nor as free from rot. In 1897 the American Pomological
Society placed the variety on its fruit list. As Berckmans is inferior
to Abundance and ripens at the same season, it is not worth recommending
for general planting. It is to be regretted that so distinguished a
horticulturist as Mr. Berckmans is not to have his name perpetuated in a
better plum than the one named in his honor.


BERGER

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:20, 21 fig., 31. 1894. =2.= Ibid,
    =106=:45, 62, 67. 1896. =3.= Ibid, =139=:46. 1897. =4.= Ibid,
    =175=:132, 133 fig. 26. 1899. =5.= _Texas Sta. Bul._ =32=:486
    fig. 7, 490, 492. 1899. =6.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 92.
    1899. =7.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:248 fig., 254, 255. 1905.

    _Honsmomo_ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. _Red Nagate_ 1, 2 incor. _Satsuma_
    1, 2 incor. _Shiro Smomo_ 1, 2, 5. Strawberry 1, 3, 6.
    _Strawberry_ 2, 4. _Uchi Bene_ 6. Uchi-Beni 1, 2, 5.
    _Uchi-Beni_ 3, 4. _Ura-Beni_ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

At first sight Berger is a wholly insignificant plum, being no larger
than a sweet cherry; but the variety is so distinct in several
characters that every collection should have a tree or two of it and
the plum-breeder will find it most interesting and valuable. Its
peculiarities are: A flavor quite distinct from that of any other
Triflora plum; its cherry-like appearance; early ripening, maturing in
this State shortly after the middle of July; its pronounced upright habit
of growth; its light green foliage; and its habit of bearing its fruit
close to the old wood. In common with many other Japanese varieties,
the nomenclature of Berger is badly confused. According to Bailey, who
received specimens of this variety from various sections of the country,
H. H. Berger & Company of San Francisco sent out this plum under several
names. Berckmans of Georgia received it as Red Nagate; N. S. Platt of
Connecticut as Satsuma; to another person in the South it came as Shiro
Smomo, while T. V. Munson of Texas grew it under the name of Berger,
a term finally adopted by Bailey. In the meanwhile, Stark Brothers of
Louisiana, Missouri, introduced a plum very similar to this under the
name Strawberry but the variety was dropped by them in 1893. Whether or
not this “Strawberry” or “Uchi-Beni,” as it was sometimes called, was
really the Berger it is impossible to say but it is certain that both of
these names have been applied to the Berger. The following description is
a compilation.

    Tree vigorous, upright, open-topped, medium hardy; leaves
    narrow, light colored; blooming season early; flowers white,
    small.

    Fruit very early; unusually small, roundish but truncate at the
    ends, attractive light to dark red, covered with thick bloom;
    flesh firm, meaty, light yellow, sweet, of pleasant flavor;
    fair to good; stone very small and cherry-like, free, with
    smooth surfaces.


BLACK BULLACE

[Illustration: BLACK BULLACE]

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 578. 1629. =2.= Gerard
    _Herball_ 1498. 1636. =3.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ =3=:1754. =4.=
    Abercrombie _Gard. Ass’t_ 13. 1786. =5.= Deane _N. E. Farmer
    Dict._ 266. 1797. =6.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ =3=:1807. =7.=
    _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831. =8.= Phillips _Com. Orch._
    306. 1831. =9.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:105. 1832. =10.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 689. 1884. =11.= _Jour. Hort._ =27=:476. 1874.
    =12.= _Garden_ =59=:226. 1901.

    Black Bulleis 1. Bullesse 2. _Earley’s November_ 11.

This variety is interesting chiefly as an early type of the Insititia
plums, its thorny branches, wayward growth, small and austere fruit,
all bespeaking a wild fruit. The plums when ripened by frost are not
unpleasant to taste and are borne in prodigious quantities. The variety,
however, is surpassed by many other Insititias and has little value
other than to show the steps between wild and highly cultivated fruits.

Black Bullace is one of the oldest of cultivated plums and all data in
regard to its origin have been lost. It resembles the wild forms of
its species very closely and it may have been selected from the wild.
Parkinson, writing in 1629, (References, 1) gives a short description of
this variety; and Gerard, in 1636, (References, 2) says: “The Bullesse
and the Sloe tree are wilde kindes of Plums, which do vary in their
kind, even as the greater and manured Plums do. Of Bullesse, some are of
greater and of better taste than others. Sloes are some of one taste, and
some of others, more sharp; some greater and others lesser; the which to
distinguish with long descriptions were to small purpose, considering
they be all and every of them known even to the simplest; therefore
this shall suffice for their several descriptions.” Black Bullace has
long been known in England and was among the first European varieties
cultivated in this country. Deane in _The New England Farmer_, 1797,
describes this variety briefly as under cultivation at that time but it
did not prove popular in North America and after Prince, 1832, it seems
to have dropped from American plum literature.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright or slightly spreading,
    dense-topped, hardy, very productive; branches smooth except
    for the numerous, small, raised lenticels, dark, ash-gray;
    branchlets long, with short internodes, green changing to dark
    brownish-drab, thickly pubescent, with numerous, inconspicuous,
    small lenticels; leaf-buds small short, obtuse, free.

    Leaves oval, one and one-half inches wide, three and
    one-quarter inches long; upper surface dark green, rugose,
    hairy, with grooved midrib; lower surface silvery-green,
    heavily pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or acute, base acute,
    margin serrate or crenate, with a few, smallish, dark glands;
    petiole three-quarters inch long, green, thickly pubescent,
    glandless or with one or two small, globose, greenish-brown
    glands on the stalk or at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing with the leaves, seven-eighths inch across, white;
    borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    three-eighths inch long, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube
    green, campanulate, pubescent only at the base; calyx-lobes
    narrow, obtuse, pubescent at margin and base, with few glands,
    reflexed; petals oval, entire, tapering abruptly to short
    claws; anthers yellowish; filaments three-eighths inch in
    length; pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit late, season long; one and one-eighth inches by
    seven-eighths inch in size, distinctly oval, necked, not
    compressed, halves equal; cavity small, shallow, narrow,
    flaring; suture lacking; apex roundish, with stigma usually
    adhering; color purplish-black, covered with thick bloom;
    dots numerous, small, brown, inconspicuous; stem one-half
    inch long, pubescent, adhering to the fruit; skin of medium
    thickness and toughness, slightly astringent, adhering
    somewhat; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy and fibrous, firm,
    sour or agreeably tart late in the season; stone clinging,
    three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size, irregularly oval
    or ovate, slightly necked at the base, acute at the apex, with
    pitted surfaces; ventral suture swollen, blunt; dorsal suture
    acute or partially furrowed.


BLACKMAN

_Prunus hortulana_ × _Prunus persica_

    =1.= _Gara. Mon._ =24=:82. 1882. =2.= Ibid, =29=:45, 302. 1887.
    =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:77. 1892.

Blackman is supposed to be a hybrid between the Wild Goose plum and a
peach. According to Bailey, a Mrs. Charity Clark secured plum pits from
an orchard of Wild Goose and Washington plums in Rutherford County,
Tennessee, about 1865 and gave them to Dr. Blackman of Nashville of that
State. One of the seedlings appeared promising and was disseminated
by a local nurseryman under the name Blackman. A rival nurseryman in
attempting to procure cions of this variety inadvertently cut them
from an adjacent tree, a barren seedling from the same lot of seed.
Unfortunately the spurious Blackman received a wide distribution while
the true variety remained practically unknown. Afterwards in order to
avoid confusion the original Blackman was rechristened Charity Clark
under which name it is now known. The tree of the second Blackman is
strong and vigorous but rarely produces its plum-like fruit. The foliage
is about midway in character between the plum and peach; the fruit-buds
are formed abundantly but seldom open. From a horticultural standpoint,
the variety is of course worthless but the hybrid, one of the first of
its kind, is interesting and worth recording.


BLEEKER

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ 25. 1828. =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 255.
    1832. =3.= Manning _Book of Fruits_ 104. 1838. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 273. 1845. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 54. 1852.
    =6.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 515. 1859. =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 899. 1869. =8.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:21. 1866-1873. =9.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 686. 1884. =10.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 423.
    1889. =11.= _Guide Prat._ 158, 364. 1895. 12. Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 96. 1901.

    _Bleecker’s_ 11. Bleecker’s German Gage 1. _Bleecker’s German
    Gage_ 2. Bleecker’s Gage 2, 4, 5, 6, 7. _Bleecker’s Gage_ 9,
    10, 11, 12. Bleeker’s Gage 3. _Blucher’s Gage_ 6. Bleecker’s
    Yellow 7. _Bleeker’s_ 10. _Bleecker’s Yellow Gage_ 7, 8, 11.
    _Bleecker’s Gage_ 8. Bleeker’s Yellow 9. _Bleeker’s Gelbe
    Zwetsche_ 11. Bleeker’s Gelbe Zwetsche 10. _Bleeker’s Yellow
    Gage_ 9, 10. _Bleeker’s Gelbe Reine-Claude_ 10. _Bleeker’s
    Gelbe Renklode_ 11. _Bleeker’s Yellow_ 10. _German Gage_ 4,
    6, 7, 9, 10, 11. _Jaune de Bleeker_ 10, 11. _Reine-Claude de
    Bleeker_ 10. Reine-Claude de Bleecker 8, 11.

Just why this old and one time popular plum is now so seldom grown cannot
be said. It is a delicious dessert plum of the Reine Claude group, much
like Yellow Gage but distinguished from it by a longer and stouter
stalk. Its tree-characters in New York are good and the fruit in all the
qualities that make plums desirable is as good as that of most of its
class. The variety originated with a Mrs. Bleeker of Albany, New York,
about 1810 from a pit given her by Rev. Mr. Dull of Kingston, New York.
This stone had come from Germany and was thought to have been that of
a German prune but this is probably an error as the seedlings of that
variety come true or nearly so. Bleeker was listed in the catalogs of the
American Pomological Society from 1852 to 1897.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    productive; trunk and branches thick and covered with rough
    bark; branches slightly pubescent; leaves two and one-quarter
    inches wide, four inches long, oval, stiff; upper surface
    somewhat rugose; margin serrate; petiole five-eighths inch
    long, thick, tinged red, with from two to three glands usually
    on the stalk.

    Fruit early; nearly one and one-half inches in diameter,
    roundish-oval, greenish-yellow, striped and splashed with green
    becoming golden-yellow at full maturity, overspread with thin
    bloom; flesh golden-yellow, dry, coarse, firm, sweet, mild; of
    good quality; stone semi-clinging, one inch by five-eighths
    inch in size, obovate, acute at the apex, medium turgid, with
    pitted surfaces.


BLUE PERDRIGON

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_ 208.
    1676. =3.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 67, 68, 69, 1699. =4.=
    Langley _Pomona_ 92, Pl. 23 fig. 4. 1729. =5.= Duhamel _Trait.
    Arb. Fr._ =2=:85. 1768. =6.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:66. 1832.
    =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 290. 1845. =8.= Floy-Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 280, 293, 383. 1846. =9.= _U. S. Pat. Off.
    Rpt._ 287. 1853. =10.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 687. 1884. =11.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 452. 1889. =12.= _Guide Prat._ 154, 361.
    1895.

    _Blue Perdrigon_ 6, 7, 11, 12. _Brignole Violette_ 7, 10, 11,
    12. _Battle Monument_ 10, 11. _Blaue Fasanen Pflaume_ 11, 12.
    _Blauer Perdrigon_ 11, 12. Blew Perdrigon 2, 3. 4. Perdrigon
    1, 3, 9. Perdrigon Violet 5, 12. _Perdrigon Violet_ 6, 8,
    11. _Perdrigon Violette_ 7, 10. _Perdigon_ 8. _Perdigevena_
    8. _Violet Perdrigon_ 4, 6, 7, 10, 11. Violet Perdrigon 6,
    8. Violetter Perdrigon 11. _Violette Fasanen Pflaume_ 11.
    _Violette Huhner Pflaume_ 11. _Violette Rebhuhn Pflaume_ 11.
    _Violette Fasanenpflaume_ 12. _Violette Huhnerpflaume_ 12.
    _Violetter Perdrigon_ 12. _Violettes Rebhuhnerei_ 11, 12.

Early records indicate that the Blue Perdrigon was introduced into
England from Italy. Hakluyt, writing in 1582, says, “Of late time the
Plum called the _Perdigevena_ was procured out of Italy, with two kinds
more, by the Lord Cromwell, after his travel.” Gough, in his _British
Topography_, states that Lord Cromwell introduced the “Perdrigon plum”
into England in the time of Henry VII. From these accounts it would seem
that this plum was established in England some time during the latter
part of the Fifteenth Century. For three hundred years it thrived so well
in England that writers had no hesitation in pronouncing it their best
plum. From England it came early to America. Probably it was included
in the shipment of plum pits ordered from England by the Governor and
Company of the Massachusetts Bay Colony in New England in 1629. In spite
of its Old World reputation, however, it never found favor here and is
now rarely if ever seen even in collections. The older writers mentioned
a Black Perdrigon which they considered distinct from the variety under
discussion. Inasmuch as all plums until recently were propagated from
seed, it is more than likely that there were all gradations in color
and that some attempted to classify the darker seedlings as a distinct
variety. This hypothesis is borne out by the fact that after grafting
and budding became the common method of propagation the so-called Black
Perdrigon became extinct. The following description is a compilation.

    Tree vigorous, but not always productive; young shoots
    pubescent; fruit mid-season; medium in size, obovate,
    compressed on the suture side, purple or blue, with
    thick bloom; stem slender; skin thick, very tough; flesh
    greenish-yellow, firm, rich, sweet, aromatic; good; stone
    small, flattened, clinging; fruit hangs on the tree until it
    shrivels.


BODDAERT

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 2d App. 156. 1876. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 36. 1877. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 687. 1884. =4.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 423. 1889. =5.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._
    472. 1894. =6.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 97. 1901.

    Boddaert’s Green Gage 1, 3. Boddart’s Green Gage 2. Boddaert’s
    Reine Claude 4. _Boddaert’s Green Gage_ 4, 6. _Reine-Claude de
    Boddaert_ 4. _Reine-Claude Boddaert_ 1, 3, 4. Reine-Claude von
    Boddaert 4.

Boddaert has much to commend it, the fruit being surpassed by that of
but few other plums of its type—that of the Reine Claude. The plums are
large, attractive and of very good quality. Since the variety has been
known so long it must be that the tree has some fatal defect; otherwise
it would be more largely grown. Boddaert is probably a Reine Claude
seedling and is of foreign origin, the details of its early history not
being known. Downing, in 1876, first mentioned the variety in America;
the following year it was placed on the fruit list in the American
Pomological Society catalog.

    Tree large, medium in vigor, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    productive; trunk rough; branches smooth, except for a few,
    raised lenticels; branchlets of medium thickness, brash,
    thinly pubescent; leaves oval, two and one-quarter inches
    wide, four inches long, thick and leathery; upper surface dark
    green, rugose; margin crenate, with small dark glands; petiole
    pubescent, thick, tinged red, usually with two globose glands.

    Fruit mid-season; about one and one-half inches in diameter,
    roundish-ovate, strongly compressed, yellow, mottled with green
    before full maturity, overspread with thin bloom; stem thickly
    pubescent; flesh light yellow, dry, meaty, tender, sweet; good
    in quality; stone semi-free or free, seven-eighths inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, oval or ovate, turgid, with pitted
    surfaces.


BRADSHAW

[Illustration: BRADSHAW]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =12=:341. 1846. =2.= _Horticulturist_
    =10=:15, 253. 1855. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 190, 214. 1856.
    =4.= _Cultivator_ =8=:25 fig. 1860. =5.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:3,
    fig. 2. 1873. =6.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 303. 1878. =7.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61, 118. 1883. =8.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 709.
    1884. =9.= _Rural N. Y._ =44=:103. 1885. =10.= _Me. Pom. Soc.
    Rpt._ 130. 1888. =11.= _Ibid._ 144. 1889. =12.= Mathieu _Nom.
    Pom._ 434. 1889. =13.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =103=:32, 33, fig. 6.
    1894. =14.= _Guide Prat._ 157, 359. 1895. =15.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =131=:182. 1897. =16.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242, 244.
    1899. =17.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =44=:91. 1899. =18.=
    Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:158. 1901. =19.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    97. 1901. =20.= _Ont. Fruit Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 16, 17 fig. 1902.
    =21.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =134=:40. 1902. =22.= _Can. Exp. Farm
    Bul._ =43=:33. 1903. =23.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:239, 254,
    255, 256. 1905.

    _Black Imperial_ 5, 14. _Blue Imperial_ 5, 14, 19, 20.
    _Bradshaw_ 9, 14. Grosse Schwarze Kaiser Pflaume 12. _Hart
    Prune_ 17. Large Black Imperial 8, 14, 18. _Large Black
    Imperial_ 2, 3, 12. _Mooney_ 9, 17. Niagara 7, 9, 10, 11.
    _Niagara_ 13, 15, 17, ?19, 20, ?22, 23.

Bradshaw leads all other plums in number of trees in New York, according
to a survey of the leading orchards made in the preparation of _The Plums
of New York_. A study of the variety does not justify this popularity.
The trees grow rather slowly and are slow in coming into bearing; the
fruit is not especially high in quality and in many regions is attacked
by brown-rot too freely for profitable orchard culture. To offset these
faults the trees are large and well formed, bear regularly and heavily,
are hardy, robust and healthy, the best of recommendations, and the plums
are large, attractive in appearance and keep and ship well especially
if picked a little green. The variety, curiously enough, is not nearly
as badly attacked by San José scale as other plums. Probably one of
the reasons why Bradshaw is so largely grown in New York is that it is
easily handled in the nursery and quickly makes a very good nursery tree.
Bradshaw does not deserve the high place it holds with plum-growers,
and must give way sooner or later to better varieties for commercial
orchards. The value of the crop is greatly lessened in New York because
it ripens in the midst of the peach season.

Unfortunately, the origin of this plum is not known. The Europeans and
some Americans have held that it came from America but, since it is
identical with the Large Black Imperial, it must be of foreign origin. It
was named by C. M. Hovey in 1846, and was described in his _Magazine of
Horticulture_ with the following explanation: “For the want of a name to
distinguish a very large and excellent plum, exhibited for three or four
years in succession, by E. E. Bradshaw, Esq., Charlestown, we have called
it the Bradshaw plum.” Barry, in 1855, states in the _Horticulturist_
that he “received it from Wm. Kenrick, a nurseryman in Newton,
Massachusetts, under the name of Large Black Imperial; but as it has been
described in _Hovey’s Magazine_ as Bradshaw, we have adopted that name in
our catalog.” Though the name Bradshaw is incorrect according to the rule
of priority, it would now cause too much confusion to change it.

Niagara, a well known variety in this State, is identical with Bradshaw
in all characters, in spite of a supposedly distinct origin. According
to Mr. George Atwood of the State Department of Agriculture, a Mr. Moody
of Lockport exhibited, about 1870, the Mooney plum, afterwards named the
Niagara. Being interested in the variety, Mr. Atwood visited Mooney, at
Lockport, the man from whom Moody had secured his stock. In Mooney’s
yard were found several bearing trees, which had been grown from sprouts
taken from the original seedling tree, grown in Canada. These trees could
not be told from the Bradshaw. If the Niagara is distinct as to origin,
it is probably a seedling of Bradshaw. Bradshaw was recommended to
fruit-growers as a promising variety by the American Pomological Society
in 1856 and has since remained on the fruit list of the society.

    Tree large, vigorous, broad-vasiform, dense-topped, hardy, very
    productive; branches smooth except for the numerous, small,
    raised lenticels, dark ash-gray; branchlets short, with long
    internodes, greenish-red changing to brownish-red, often with
    heavy gray scarf-skin, dull, sparingly pubescent, with obscure,
    small lenticels; leaf-buds variable in size and length,
    pointed, free.

    Leaves drooping, folded backward, obovate or oval, two inches
    wide, four and one-quarter inches long, thickish; upper surface
    dark green, rugose, pubescent, with a shallow groove on the
    midrib; lower surface grayish-green, thickly pubescent; apex
    acute, base abrupt, margin not regular, varying from coarsely
    crenate to serrate, eglandular or with few, small, dark glands;
    petiole three-quarters inch long, pubescent, reddish, glandless
    or with from one to three large, globose, greenish-brown glands
    on the stalk or at the base of the leaf.

    Season of bloom short; flowers appearing after the leaves, one
    and three-sixteenths inches across, the buds creamy changing
    to white as the flowers expand; borne on lateral buds and
    spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels nearly eleven-sixteenths
    inch long, pubescent, green; calyx-tube greenish, campanulate,
    pubescent only at the base; calyx-lobes wide, obtuse, pubescent
    on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, margins ciliate, reflexed;
    petals broadly oval, erose, with short, broad claws; anthers
    yellowish; filaments seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil
    pubescent at the base, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season; two inches by one and three-quarters
    inches in size, oval or obovate, compressed, halves equal;
    cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt, with a fleshy ring around
    the stem; suture very shallow; apex roundish or flattened;
    color light purplish-red changing to dark reddish-purple at
    maturity, covered with thick bloom; dots numerous, small,
    russet, inconspicuous, clustered about the apex; stem thick,
    seven-eighths inch long, pubescent, adhering strongly to the
    fruit; skin thin, somewhat tough, sour, separating readily;
    flesh dull yellow, often with a trace of red when fully
    mature, juicy, fibrous, somewhat tender, sweet, pleasant;
    good; stone semi-free, flattened, one and one-quarter inches
    by three-quarters inch in size, irregularly oval, necked at
    the base, blunt at the apex, strongly roughened and pitted,
    often with numerous, small, deep pits near the margins of both
    ventral and dorsal sutures; ventral suture strongly furrowed
    and winged; dorsal suture with a deep, narrow groove.


BRYANSTON

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831. =2.= _Jour. Hort._ N.
    S. =17=:286. 1869. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 902. 1869.
    =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 24. 1871. =5.= Barry _Fr. Garden_
    411. 1883. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 688. 1884. =7.= _Tenn. Sta.
    Bul._ =3=: No. 5, 88. 1890. =8.= _Guide Prat._ 155. 1895. =9.=
    Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:157. 1901. =10.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    98. 1901. =11.= _Mass. Sta. An. Rpt._ =17=:158. 1905.

    Bryanstone 11. Bryanston Gage 1, 2, 6, 9. Bryanston’s Gage 3,
    5, 7. _Bryanston’s Gage_ 10. Bryanstone Gage 4. Reine-Claude
    Bryanston 8.

The fruits of Bryanston fall not a little short, all things considered,
of being as good as those of several other of the varieties in the Reine
Claude group of which this plum is a member. For this reason Bryanston
is not often rated by horticulturists as one of the best plums, but the
large, vigorous trees growing on the Station grounds are so especially
desirable for this variety, in a group which taken as a whole is noted
for poor trees, that it is here described among the leading plums. The
fruit is larger than that of Reine Claude but is less attractive in
color and shape and the quality is not as high. It is later than the
variety with which it has just been compared and the crop is not borne
as regularly. While this plum can hardly be recommended for extensive
orchard plantings, it yet has too many merits to be forgotten.

This variety is said to be the result of crossing Reine Claude and Golden
Drop at Bryanston Park, Blandford, England. It was first noted in the
London Horticultural Society fruit catalog in 1831 but no information in
regard to the date of its origin seems to have been published. In 1871
the American Pomological Society added it to its fruit catalog list but
dropped it in 1897.

    Tree very large and vigorous, round-topped, open, hardy, very
    productive; branches smooth, becoming rough near the trunk,
    ash-gray, with lenticels of medium size and number; branchlets
    somewhat slender, short, with long internodes, greenish-red
    changing to dull reddish-brown, marked by scarf-skin, dull,
    glabrous, with few, inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds
    above medium in size and length, pointed, free; leaf-scars
    prominent.

    Leaves folded backward, oval or obovate, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, three and one-quarter inches long, leathery; upper
    surface dark green, sparingly hairy, with a shallow groove on
    the midrib; lower surface yellowish-green, pubescent; apex
    abruptly pointed or acute, base acute, margin crenate, bearing
    small, dark glands; petiole one-half inch long, pubescent, with
    a little red, glandless or with one or two small, globose,
    yellowish glands.

    Blooming season intermediate in time, short; flowers appearing
    with the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across, white,
    creamy at the apex of the petals in the newly opened flowers;
    borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    one-half inch long, thick, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube
    green, campanulate, pubescent at the base; calyx-lobes broad,
    obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-ciliate, somewhat
    reflexed; petals roundish-ovate, erose; anthers yellow;
    filaments about one-quarter inch long; pistil glabrous except
    at the base, slightly longer than the stamens; stigma large.

    Fruit mid-season; one and five-eighths inches by one and
    one-half inches in size, irregular roundish-truncate, halves
    unequal; cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt; suture usually
    shallow, prominent; apex flattened or depressed; color dull
    yellow with greenish streaks, sometimes with pinkish blush
    about the cavity, mottled, overspread with thin bloom; dots
    numerous, small, inconspicuous; stem thick, three-quarters inch
    long, pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, tough,
    sour, separating readily; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, firm
    but tender, sweet, aromatic; very good; stone nearly free,
    seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size, broadly oval,
    turgid, slightly contracted at the blunt base, roundish at the
    apex, with rough and pitted surfaces; ventral suture broad,
    with a distinct but small wing; dorsal suture widely and deeply
    grooved.


BURBANK

[Illustration: BURBANK]

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 53, 99. 1889. =2.= _U. S. D. A.
    Rpt._ 392. 1891. =3.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 360. 1891. =4.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:46, 63. 1896. =5.= _Ala. Col. Sta.
    Bul._ =85=:445. 1897. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897. =7.=
    _Am. Gard._ =19=:75, 132, 220, 792. 1898. =8.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:242, 249. 1899. =9.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:143.
    1899. =10.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 134. 1901. =11.= _W. N. Y. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 88. 1902. =12.= _Can. Hort._ =25=:272. 1902. =13.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 308. 1903. =14.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    =68=:11, 28. 1905. =15.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256. 1905.
    =16.= DeVries _Plant Breeding_ 170. 1907.

    _Persing Nos. 1 & 2_, 15. _Russian plum 20M._ 4. Wassu 4.
    _Wassu_ 9.

Probably Abundance holds first place among the Triflora plums in New
York but Burbank is a close second and in many localities has first
preference. Abundance is in the lead chiefly because the trees of this
variety are larger and better formed and bear more fruit than those of
Burbank. To offset the advantages of Abundance the fruit of Burbank is of
better quality, more handsomely colored, keeps and ships better and is
less susceptible to brown-rot. The fruit of Burbank ripens a week or more
later than that of Abundance, which in most seasons is a slight advantage
for the first-named variety. The trees of this plum are distinguished
from those of all other plums by their low, spreading habit, flat top
and somewhat drooping branches, characters which make them more or less
difficult to handle in the orchard and very difficult to manage in the
nursery. The wood of Burbank is brittle, true of all Trifloras, but
a serious defect in this one. In common with other varieties of its
species, Burbank is less troubled with curculio and black-knot than the
European plums. The fruit of this variety begins to color some days
before ripe and should be picked before fully matured if it is to be kept
or shipped. Usually the best specimens of Burbank come from thinned trees
and thinning is a necessary operation in all commercial orchards. The
variety does not thrive in the South, being poor in quality and rotting
badly. In New York, Burbank is not being planted nearly so largely as a
few years ago, the Domesticas being much more profitable than this or
other Triflora plums. It is a very desirable variety for home plantations
in New York.

Burbank was produced from a plum pit sent to Luther Burbank[207] by
a Japanese agent in 1883.[208] The fruit of this variety proved to be
very superior and Mr. Burbank sent specimens of it to the Division of
Pomology, United States Department of Agriculture in 1887, where it was
named in honor of the introducer. Wassu, introduced by J. L. Normand,
and the Russian plum, 20 M, sent out by Professor J. L. Budd proved to
be indistinguishable from the Burbank as tested by Bailey, but Kerr[209]
thinks the Wassu is a distinct variety. The American Pomological Society
added Burbank to the fruit list in its catalog in 1897.

    Tree large, vigorous, distinguished by its low, sprawling habit
    and flat open top, unusually hardy for a Japanese variety,
    very productive, healthy; branches somewhat roughish, dark
    ash-gray, thickly covered with fruit-spurs, with few, large,
    raised lenticels; branchlets medium in thickness and length,
    with short internodes, greenish-red changing to dark brown,
    with gray scarf-skin, glossy, glabrous, with raised lenticels
    of medium size and number; leaf-buds short, obtuse, free.

    Leaves folded upward, broadly oblanceolate, peach-like, one and
    one-eighth inches wide, three and three-quarters inches long,
    thin; upper surface light green, smooth, pubescent only on the
    deeply grooved midrib; lower surface glabrous, pubescent on the
    midrib; apex taper-pointed, base cuneate, margin finely and
    doubly serrate, with small amber or reddish glands; petiole
    nine-sixteenths inch long, sparingly hairy on one side, tinged
    red, with from one to four small, reniform or globose glands
    mostly on the stalk.

    Blooming season early and short; flowers appearing with the
    leaves, white; borne in dense clusters on the lateral buds
    and spurs, in threes; pedicels one-quarter inch long, thick,
    glabrous; calyx-tube green, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    broad, obtuse, glandular-serrate, glabrous, erect; petals
    broadly oval, entire, short-clawed; anthers yellowish;
    filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than
    the stamens.

    Fruit early, season long; variable in size, large when the tree
    is not overloaded, one and three-quarters inches in diameter,
    roundish-conic, halves equal; cavity deep, abrupt, regular;
    suture shallow; apex roundish; color dark red over a yellow
    ground, mottled, with thick bloom; dots numerous, large,
    russet, conspicuous; stem five-eighths inch long, glabrous,
    parting readily from the fruit; skin thin, tough, sour,
    separating from the pulp; flesh deep yellow, juicy, tender,
    firm, sweet, aromatic; good; stone clinging, three-quarters
    inch by five-eighths inch in size, roundish-oval, turgid, blunt
    but sharp-tipped, roughish, with a slightly winged ventral
    suture; dorsal suture acute.


CHABOT

[Illustration: CHABOT]

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 29. 1886. =2.= _Ibid._ 52, 99. 1889.
    =3.= _Am. Gard._ =12=:501. 1891. =4.= _Ibid._ =13=:700. 1892.
    =5.= _Rev. Hort._ 132, Pl. 537. 1892. =6.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =62=:20, 22, 28. 1894. =7.= _Ibid._ =106=:44, 48, 51, 60. 1896.
    =8.= Rogers _Cat._ 9. 1896. =9.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =139=:38.
    1897. =10.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897. =11.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =175=:150. 1899. =12.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 134, 135 fig.
    1901. =13.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:37. 1903. =14.= _Ohio
    Sta. Bul._ =162=:250, 254, 255, 256, 257. 1905. =15.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =68=:12, 14, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32. 1905.

    Babcock 15. _Babcock_ ?15. Bailey 3, 4, 6, 7. _Bailey_ 9, 11,
    12, 15. _Chase_ 9, 15. _Chabot_ 15. _Douglas_ 15. Furugiya
    7, 15. _Furugiya_ 11, 12, 15. Hytankayo 14. _Hytankayo_ 15.
    _Hon-smomo_ 15. _O-Hatankyo_ 11. Orient 6, 7. _Orient_ 14.
    O-hattankio 15. Paragon 8. _Red Nagate_ of some 7. Uchi Beni of
    some 11. _Yellow Japan_ 9, 11, 12.

When properly handled the fruits of Chabot are far the most attractive
of the many Triflora plums. They are large, beautifully molded and
handsomely mottled in shades of red over yellow with occasional splashes
of russet and a heavy but delicate bloom. To secure the best coloring,
the fruit must be picked before ripe and be matured in dark storage.
Early picking is necessary also because the season of ripening is very
long and the fruit drops badly if permitted to hang to the trees until
fully ripe. There should be at least three pickings for this variety.
Unfortunately, the quality of Chabot belies its appearance, being at
best not above the average. The fruits are firm and ship well and keep
rather better than those of any other plum of its species. The trees are
hardy and dependable in bearing but not as productive as could be wished.
The blossoms of Chabot open later than those of most other Trifloras,
enabling this sort occasionally to escape frosts which injure other
varieties of this species. The stamens are often short, undeveloped and
wholly or in part sterile. Because of its attractive fruit this variety
might well be grown more than it is for the markets.

Chabot was imported from Japan by a Mr. Chabot of Berkeley, California,
and was introduced to the trade by Luther Burbank in 1886. As with
Abundance, the nomenclature of Chabot is badly confused. Several names
that have been found to be synonymous with the former have also been
applied to the latter. J. L. Normand, Marksville, Louisiana, imported
trees from Japan, among which was a tree that was different from any
growing on his grounds. He named this variety after Bailey and introduced
it in 1891. Later this was found to be identical with Chabot. Furugiya,
another introduction by Normand, is undoubtedly Chabot. H. N. Starnes
of the Georgia Experiment Station, who has tested many of the Japanese
plums, published in Bulletin 68 of his station, the additional synonyms:
Chase, O-hattankio, Hytankayo, Douglas, Hon-smomo and Babcock. Orient,
introduced by Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, in 1893, is Chabot as
tested at the New York and Ohio experiment stations. Paragon, introduced
by the Rogers Nursery Company, Moorestown, New Jersey, has also proved to
be identical. In 1897 the American Pomological Society added this variety
to its fruit catalog list.

    Tree large, vigorous, vasiform or upright-spreading,
    open-topped, slow-growing, hardy, productive, susceptible to
    attacks of shot-hole fungus; branches roughish, the fruit-spurs
    numerous, dark ash-gray, with raised lenticels variable in
    size; branchlets slender, with short intemodes, greenish-red
    changing to dark chestnut-red, glossy, glabrous, with numerous,
    conspicuous, rather large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds small,
    short, obtuse, somewhat appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate or oblanceolate, peach-like, one
    and one-quarter inches wide, three inches long, thin; upper
    surface light green, smooth, with a shallow, grooved midrib;
    lower surface pale green, glabrous except at the base of the
    veins; apex acutely pointed, base cuneate, margin finely
    serrate, with small, amber or dark red glands; petiole one-half
    inch long, slender, slightly pubescent along the upper surface,
    heavily tinged with red, glandless or with from one to six
    small, globose or reniform, greenish-brown glands usually on
    the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate and long; flowers appearing with
    the leaves, white; borne in clusters on lateral spurs in pairs
    or in threes; pedicels three-eighths inch long, pubescent,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, obconic, pubescent at the base;
    calyx-lobes obtuse, glandular, somewhat serrate, pubescent at
    the base, erect; petals broadly oval, entire, with narrow,
    long claws; anthers shrivelled; filaments nearly sessile or
    one-eighth inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the stamens;
    stigma small.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; one and five-eighths
    inches in diameter, cordate or roundish, halves equal; cavity
    deep, flaring, with concentric, russet rings; suture distinct;
    apex roundish or pointed; color light and dark shades of red
    over yellow, mottled, with occasional splashes of russet and
    with a thick but delicate bloom; dots numerous, small, russet
    or yellow, conspicuous unless obscured by the bloom, clustered
    around the apex; stem thick, one-half inch long, adhering to
    the fruit; skin medium in thickness, tender, bitter, separating
    easily; flesh golden-yellow, very juicy, coarse and fibrous,
    tender, somewhat melting when fully ripe, sweet, although
    somewhat tart at the center, sprightly, with characteristic
    Triflora flavor; good; stone clinging, three-quarters inch by
    one-half inch in size, oval, turgid, slightly necked, with
    pitted surfaces; ventral suture wide; dorsal suture unfurrowed.


CHALCO

_Prunus simonii_ × _Prunus triflora_

    =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 4. 1898. =2.= _Rural N. Y._ =57=:184, 653.
    1898. =3.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:8. 1898. =4.= _Vt. Sta. An.
    Rpt._ =14=:273. 1901. =5.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:12, 35. 1905.

Chalco has been extensively advertised by several nurseries but, from the
reports received, it is doubtful if it will ever be grown commercially.
The trees, in the East at least, are slow in coming into bearing; the
fruits are small; and the flavor such that consumers will have to learn
to like it although it is much better in quality than the Simon plum, one
of its parents, being quite free from the bitterness of this parent. The
tree is rather better than that of the Simon plum or of the Wickson, the
two plums with which it must be compared. The amateur may care to plant
Chalco but here its usefulness ends. Burbank in introducing this plum in
1898, stated that it was the first fruit offered after twelve years’ work
in crossing _Prunus simonii_ with _Prunus triflora_ and American species.
The parentage of Chalco is given as a Simon-Burbank cross. The following
description is compiled:

    Tree vigorous, upright or somewhat vasiform, very productive;
    leaves large, dark green. Fruit matures shortly before Burbank;
    large when well grown, oblate, dark red; flesh yellowish, firm,
    very juicy, aromatic, sweet; good; stone small, oval, slightly
    flattened, semi-free.


CHAMBOURCY

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 39. 1898. =2.= _Soc. Nat. Hort. France Pom._
    560, fig. 1904. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 433. 1905. =4.=
    _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 473 fig. 1906.

    _Reine-Claude Tardive De Chambourcy_ 2. _Reine-Claude
    Tardive Latinois_ 1. Reine-Claude Tardive de Chambourcy 1.
    _Reine-Claude Latinois_ 2, 4. _Reine-Claude tardive_ 1.
    _Reine-Claude Verte_ 4. Reine-Claude Tardive 2, 4. Reine-Claude
    de Chambourcy 3. _Tardive de Chambourcy_ 4.

This fruit was found at the beginning of the Nineteenth Century at
Chambourcy, France, in the garden of M. Bourgeois; no record of its
parents seems to have been made. M. Latinois introduced it into commerce
in 1885-1886 and consequently his name became attached to the variety.
The plum is not well known in America, there being only one published
American reference. This Station received the variety for testing in 1899
from the United States Department of Agriculture. It has value on account
of its high quality and its lateness, and is worthy of extensive testing.

    Tree small, upright-spreading, dense-topped, productive;
    branchlets develop fruit-spurs near the base; leaf-buds
    strongly appressed; leaves folded upward, long-oval or obovate,
    one and five-eighths inches wide, three and three-quarters
    inches long, somewhat leathery; margin doubly serrate or
    crenate, with small dark glands; blooming season intermediate
    in time and length; flowers appearing after the leaves, over
    one inch across; borne in thin clusters on lateral buds and
    spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit very late, season of medium length; nearly one and
    one-half inches in diameter, roundish, slightly truncate,
    yellowish-green, with a delicate bloom and a pink blush on the
    exposed cheek; flesh greenish-yellow, very juicy, firm but
    tender, sweet, aromatic, of high flavor; very good to best;
    stone semi-free or free, three-quarters inch, by one-half inch
    in size, irregular-oval, flattened, rather blunt at the base
    and apex, with roughened surfaces; ventral suture strongly
    furrowed, often with a distinct wing.


CHAMPION

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 360. 1891. =2.= _Oregon Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 147. 1893. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 150. 1895. =4.=
    _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:30. 1897.

    Champion Prune, 1, 2, 3.

The Champion was introduced with the expectation that it would be a
valuable fruit for curing into prunes. It has not proved to be a good
plum for prune-making, as it is too juicy, about three-fourths of its
bulk evaporating, but the western plum-growers have found it a very
good plum for shipping in the fresh state. It is very attractive in
appearance, firm, free of stone, sweet and pleasant and withal of rather
high quality. The tree-characters, as the plums grow in Geneva, are in
the main very good, falling short, if at all, in productiveness. They
are such as to lead to the recommendation of a trial for this plum by
plum-growers in general in New York.

This variety is a seedling of the Italian Prune produced by Jesse
Bullock, Oswego, Oregon, about 1876, and introduced by C. E. Hoskins,
Springbrook, Oregon. Since the Italian Prune comes nearly true to seed it
is very doubtful if this variety is a pure-bred seedling judging from the
characters of the fruit as given below:

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    hardy, productive, an early bearer, subject to sun-scald;
    branches ash-gray, rather smooth, with few, small lenticels;
    branchlets short, with very short internodes, greenish-red
    changing to brownish-red, dull, sparingly pubescent throughout
    the season, with few inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds
    below medium in size, short, obtuse, free, plump.

    Leaves folded upward, oval, one and five-eighths inches wide,
    three inches long; upper surface somewhat rugose, covered with
    numerous, fine hairs, with a shallow groove on the midrib;
    lower surface silvery-green, pubescent: apex abruptly pointed
    or acute, base acute, margin crenate, with small black glands;
    petiole one-half inch long, green, pubescent, with from one to
    three medium to large, globose, brownish glands mostly at the
    base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one inch across, white with a
    yellowish tinge at the apex of the petals; borne on lateral
    spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels five-eighths inch long,
    with a few scattering hairs, green; calyx-tube greenish,
    campanulate, sparingly pubescent; calyx-lobes obtuse, pubescent
    on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, somewhat reflexed; petals
    roundish, crenate, tapering to short, broad claws: anthers
    yellow; filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous,
    slightly shorter or equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit earlier than Italian Prune; about one and one-half
    inches in diameter, roundish, compressed, halves equal;
    cavity very shallow, abrupt, narrow, regular; suture shallow;
    apex roundish, with a slight depression at the pistil-point;
    color dark purplish-black, with thick bloom; dots small,
    russet, somewhat conspicuous, clustered about the apex; stem
    five-eighths inch long, sparingly pubescent, parting readily
    from the fruit; skin thick, tough, sour, adhering but little;
    flesh attractive yellow, juicy, firm, sweet, pleasant flavor;
    very good; stone free, the cavity larger than the pit,
    three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size, irregular-oval,
    the surface distinctly roughened and pitted; ventral suture
    swollen, rather narrow, often with a wing; dorsal suture with a
    shallow, narrow, indistinct groove.


CHENEY

[Illustration: CHENEY]

_Prunus nigra_

    =1.= _Wis. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 15, 38. 1885. =2.= _Minn. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 126. 1890. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:36, 86.
    1892. =4.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =31=:346. 1895. =5.= _Wis. Sta.
    Bul._ =63=:24, 31 fig. 13. 1897. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 24.
    1897. =7.= _Gard, & For._ =10=:367. 1897. =8.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._
    =50=:33. 1898. =9.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 412. 1899. =10.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 169. 1901. =11.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort.
    Man._ 294. 1903. =12.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:29. 1903.
    =13.= _Ia. Hort, Soc. Rpt._ 488. 1904. =14.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =162=:254, 255. 1905. =15.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:11. 1905.
    =16.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =114=:129. 1910.

    _Cherry_ 16 incor.

Cheney is of little value except towards the northern limits of fruit
culture in America where, because of its great hardiness, it is a most
desirable fruit-plant. Of the varieties illustrated and described among
the leading plums in this text, Cheney is the sole representative of
_Prunus nigra_, the wild plum of Canada and of northern United States.
The accompanying description shows that while the fruit of this variety
is not such as to recommend it where other species can be grown, the tree
has some characters most desirable wherever plums are grown—hardiness,
vigor, productiveness and good form—so that this variety might well be
used in breeding plums. The trees are very ornamental whether in flower,
full leaf or fruit, but especially when in full bloom as they bear a
great profusion of large white flowers which change to a pleasing pink
before falling.

This plum, according to a letter from the discoverer, E. Markle, of
La Crosse, Wisconsin, was found in the brush on a ridge, in Vernon
County, Wisconsin, about twenty-five or thirty years ago. Mr. Markle
thought it must have sprung from a seed dropped by an early voyager of
the Mississippi River as there were no similar plums in the region.
Noting its good qualities Mr. Markle introduced the variety, the date of
introduction being about 1887. The American Pomological Society added
Cheney to its fruit catalog list in 1897, where, however, it remained but
two years.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, dense-topped, hardy,
    productive, bears early, somewhat susceptible to disease;
    branches numerous, dark brownish-gray, very thorny, with large
    lenticels; branchlets long, with long internodes, greenish-red
    changing to dull reddish-brown, dull, thickly pubescent
    early in the season, the pubescence decreasing at maturity,
    with raised lenticels which are variable in size; leaf-buds
    smallish, short, conical, free.

    Leaves folded upward, oval, one and three-quarters inches wide,
    three and five-eighths inches long, thin; upper surface dark
    green, nearly smooth, pubescent only along the midrib which
    is deeply grooved; lower surface yellowish-green, pubescent
    along the midrib and larger veins; apex taper-pointed, margin
    crenate, usually in two series, sometimes with small, dark
    glands; petiole one-half inch long, rather slender, pubescent,
    tinged red, glandless or with from one to three small, globose,
    greenish-yellow glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, showy, about one inch across, white
    changing to pink; borne in clusters on lateral spurs, in pairs
    or in threes, very fragrant; pedicels nine-sixteenths inch
    long, pubescent, green with a trace of red; calyx-tube obconic,
    glabrous, red on the outer surface but green within and pinkish
    along the margin; calyx-lobes obtuse or acute, serrate, with
    small red glands and with marginal hairs, narrow, sparingly
    pubescent on the inner surface, reflexed; petals broadly oval,
    crenate, often toothed, tapering below to long narrow claws;
    anthers yellowish; filaments nearly one-half inch in length;
    pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period very long; medium in size,
    irregular roundish-oval, strongly oblique, halves equal; cavity
    shallow, regular, flaring; suture shallow or a line; apex
    roundish, somewhat oblique; color at first yellowish-green with
    a light carmine blush changing to deep carmine on a yellow
    ground, covered with thin bloom; dots numerous, very small,
    russet, inconspicuous, densely clustered about the apex; stem
    slender, five-eighths inch in length, slightly pubescent,
    adhering to the fruit; skin thick, tough, sour, separating
    readily; flesh deep yellow, very juicy, fibrous, tender and
    melting, sweet next to the skin but tart at the center, not
    high in flavor; fair in quality; stone adhering, seven-eighths
    inch by five-eighths inch in size, broadly oval, distinctly
    flattened, blunt-pointed, with ridged and furrowed surfaces;
    ventral suture acute, narrow; dorsal suture slightly furrowed.


CLIMAX

[Illustration: CLIMAX]

_Prunus triflora_ × _Prunus simonii_

    =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =57=:653, 818. 1898. =2.= _Cal. State Board
    Hort._ 52. 1897-98. =3.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:9. 1898. =4.=
    _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:222. 1899. =5.= _Burbank Cat._ =2.=
    1899. =6.= _Nat. Nur._ =8=:117. 1900. =7.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =14=:273. 1901. =8.= _Rural N. Y._ =62=:643. 1903. =9.= _Mich.
    Sta. Sp. Bul._ =30=:18. 1905. =10.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:8, 35.
    1905. =11.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 66. 1907.

    Royal 1. _Royal_ 1, 3, 4.

It is hard to judge as to the merits of this variety. From the behavior
of the trees on the grounds of this Station where we have had fruit of
it for eight years, we should say at once that Climax has no place in
the plum-growing regions of the East but others who have grown it speak
so well of it, the fruit in particular, that the unfavorable opinion
of the variety formed here may be unjust. Some of the expressions
regarding this fruit in the foregoing references may be dismissed at
once as the most wildly extravagant and absurd to be found in plum
literature. From its behavior on these grounds and in the plum-growing
regions of the East in general, it seems certain that Climax cannot
stand the vicissitudes of the climate, suffering both in winter and
summer. The trees, in size, vigor and habit of growth, are inferior to
those of most Triflora varieties, and those under observation in this
part of New York are not as productive as the standard Trifloras with
which Climax must be compared. The fruit is handsome in shape and color,
more so in color than the accompanying illustration shows, and is of
good quality. Unfortunately it is very susceptible to the brown-rot, so
much so that because of this defect alone Climax could hardly become a
profitable commercial plum in this region. It has been quite well tested
in various parts of New York and has proved so uniformly disappointing in
tree-characters, in particular, that it cannot be recommended as other
than a plum for the home collection where, because of its beauty and
quality, it is most desirable.

Climax is another of Luther Burbank’s plums, having been introduced in
1899. The originator states that it is a selected hybrid between the
Simon and Botan plums. The variety was first described as the Royal but
since this name had been previously given to a European plum it was
renamed Climax.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, somewhat straggling,
    dense-topped, semi-hardy, medium productive; branches dark
    ash-gray, short and stout, with numerous lenticels; branchlets
    short, with very short internodes, brownish chestnut-red,
    glossy, glabrous, with numerous conspicuous, small, raised
    lenticels; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, plump, free.

    Leaves folded upward, oblanceolate, peach-like, one and
    one-quarter inches wide, three and three-eighths inches long,
    thin; upper surface light green, smooth, with a grooved midrib,
    glabrous; lower surface light green, glabrous except on the
    midrib and larger veins; apex taper-pointed, base cuneate,
    margin finely serrate or crenate, with small, dark brown
    glands; petiole nine-sixteenths inch long, sparsely pubescent,
    tinged red, glandless or with from one to seven small, globose
    or slightly compressed, reddish glands.

    Blooming season early and of medium length; flowers appearing
    with the leaves, white; borne in clusters of three, on lateral
    spurs; pedicels, long, thick, glabrous, green; calyx tube
    greenish, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse, with a few
    hair-like glands, glabrous, erect; petals roundish-oval,
    entire; anthers deep yellow; filaments short; pistil glabrous,
    equal to the stamens in length; stigma very small.

    Fruit very early, season short; one and three-quarters inches
    in diameter, cordate or roundish, slightly compressed, halves
    unequal; cavity deep, abrupt, regular, marked with faint,
    reddish, radiating streaks; suture deep, broad; apex pointed;
    color dark red, mottled; bloom of medium thickness; dots
    numerous, variable in size, russet, conspicuous, clustered
    about the base; stem thick, nine-sixteenths inch long,
    glabrous, parting readily from the fruit; skin thick, bitter,
    with a tendency to crack, separating easily from the pulp only
    when fully ripe; flesh yellowish, very juicy, somewhat fibrous,
    tender and melting, sweet, pleasant flavored, aromatic; good;
    stone adhering, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in
    size, somewhat long-oval, pointed, roughish, conspicuously
    winged and grooved on the ventral suture; dorsal suture
    slightly grooved.


CLING STEM

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:347. 1890.

This plum belongs to the Reine Claude group, a group in which there is
room for new varieties only at the top. Cling Stem is inferior, falling
short chiefly in quality, for a plum of its type, and it is doubtful if
it is worth general planting. This Station alone seems to have tested
the variety, hence the rather full description which follows of a plum
which cannot be recommended. The variety was sent here in 1890 from North
Ferrisburg, Vermont, by L. M. Macomber.

    Tree large and vigorous, spreading, dense-topped, very
    productive; branches rough, the bark marked by concentric
    rings, with numerous spurs and with many, small, raised
    lenticels; branchlets short, pubescent; leaf-scars swollen;
    leaves folded upward, oval, one and three-quarters inches
    wide, three inches long, rather thick and leathery; margin
    doubly crenate, eglandular or with small, dark glands; petiole
    pubescent, tinged red, glandless or with from one to three
    globose glands usually at the base of the leaf; blooming season
    of medium length; flowers over one inch across, white with
    yellowish tinge near the apex of the petals; borne on lateral
    buds and spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit mid-season; one and one-half inches by one and
    five-eighths inches in size, nearly roundish, dull light
    yellow, sometimes mottled with red on the exposed cheek,
    overspread with thin bloom; skin thin, sour; flesh
    greenish-yellow, tender and melting, sweet near the surface
    but acid at the center, mild, pleasant, but not high-flavored;
    stone clinging, three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in
    size, nearly round, turgid; surfaces pitted; ventral suture
    broad, heavily furrowed, with a short, distinct wing.


CLYMAN

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 574. 1888. =2.= _Cal. State Board
    Hort._ 236, 239, Pl. II figs. 3 and 4. 1890. =3.= _Wickson
    Cal. Fruits_ 358. 1891. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 25. 1897.
    =5.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =27=:124. 1898. =6.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =113=:158. 1899. =7.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 98. 1901. =8.= _Ohio
    Sta. Bul._ =162=:236, 237 fig., 254, 255. 1905.

Clyman has special merit as one of the earliest good Domesticas. The
fruit resembles that of Lombard somewhat, but is smaller and is much
better in quality. As grown in California the Clyman commands high prices
for shipping eastward. Whether it could be grown profitably in the East
remains to be seen but it deserves to be rather widely tested for an
early home and market plum. In New York it has a few serious faults:
the plums are susceptible to rot, they drop as soon as ripe and the
trees seem not to be quite hardy at Geneva; though in the Ohio reference
given above they are said to be “rather hardier than those of most other
European sorts.” Otherwise than in hardiness the trees at this place are
quite satisfactory. The variety is characterized by very long stamens.
Clyman is well deserving of trial with the possibility that it may prove
to be the best of our early Domesticas.

This plum was raised from a Peach plum stone planted in 1866, by Mrs.
Hannah Clyman, Napa City, Napa Valley, California. The original tree
was cut down but several suckers were taken from the roots and planted
in an orchard. These bore fruit for many years, never failing to mature
a crop. In 1886, Leonard Coates, a nurseryman and fruit-grower of Napa
City, became interested in the plum on account of its extreme earliness
and offered it to his customers. The American Pomological Society added
Clyman to its fruit catalog list in 1897.

    Tree rather large, vigorous, round and dense-topped, semi-hardy
    in New York, productive; branches ash-gray, nearly smooth, with
    numerous, small, raised lenticels; branchlets thick, rather
    long, with internodes of medium length, greenish-red changing
    to brownish-red, dull, heavily pubescent throughout the season,
    with numerous, indistinct, small lenticels; leaf-buds of medium
    size and length, conical, appressed; leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves folded backward, obovate, one and seven-eighths inches
    wide, three and one-quarter inches long; upper surface dark
    green, rugose, sparingly hairy; lower surface pale green,
    pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or acute, base acute, margin
    serrate or crenate, covered with small dark glands; petiole
    nearly seven-eighths inch long, pubescent, reddish, glandless
    or with from one to three globose, greenish-yellow glands
    variable in size and position.

    Blooming season early and short; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across, white, the
    buds creamy at the apex when unfolding; borne in clusters on
    lateral spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels about one-half
    inch long, thick, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, pubescent
    on both surfaces, serrate, reflexed; petals obovate, dentate,
    tapering to short, broad claws; anthers yellow; filaments about
    seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil pubescent near the base,
    equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit very early, season short; one and one-half inches by one
    and three-eighths inches in size, oval, halves equal; cavity
    narrow, abrupt, regular; suture shallow and often indistinct;
    apex roundish or slightly depressed; color dark purplish-red,
    covered with thick bloom; dots numerous, small, russet,
    inconspicuous; stem five-eighths inches long, pubescent,
    adhering poorly to the fruit; skin tender, sour, separating
    readily; flesh pale yellow, dry, firm, sweet, mild but
    pleasant; of good quality; stone free, seven-eighths inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, somewhat flattened, irregular-oval,
    with pitted surfaces, tapering abruptly at the base, nearly
    acute at the apex; ventral suture of medium width, usually
    rather blunt; dorsal suture with a wide, deep groove.


COLUMBIA

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =8=:90. 1842. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    292. 1845. =3.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 216. 1849 =4.= Thomas _Am.
    Fruit Cult._ 334. 1849. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 86. 1862.
    =6.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:159. 1873. =7.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 691.
    1884. =8.= _Wash. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 135. 1893.

    _Columbian Gage_ 2, 4. _Columbia Pflaume_ 6. _Columbia Gage_ 7.

When grown on strong soils and in some climates, Columbia is possibly
a plum of value and sometimes of superiority, but in New York in the
average plantation it falls far short of other fruits of its type—that
of the Reine Claude. The trees are productive and the fruit large and
handsome but not of highest quality and moreover drops badly and is very
susceptible to the brown-rot. Columbia originated early in the second
quarter of the Nineteenth Century with L. V. Lawrence of Hudson, New
York, from seed of Reine Claude.

    Tree large, medium in vigor, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    productive; trunk stocky, rough; branches thick; branchlets
    pubescent; leaves folded upward, one and seven-eighths inches
    wide, four and one-quarter inches long, oval, thick, leathery;
    upper surface rugose; margin serrate or crenate, with small,
    dark glands; petiole thick, tinged red, pubescent, with from
    one to three globose glands.

    Fruit mid-season; when well grown nearly one and one-half
    inches in diameter, roundish-oval, the smaller specimens rather
    ovate, dark purplish-red, overspread with thick bloom; stem
    surrounded by a fleshy ring at the cavity; skin tender, sour;
    flesh golden-yellow, dry, firm, sweet, mild; of good quality;
    stone semi-free or free, seven-eighths inch by three-quarters
    inch in size, roundish-oval, flattened; ventral suture
    prominent; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


COMPASS

_Prunus besseyi_ × _Prunus hortulana mineri_

    =1.= _Northwestern Agr._ 348. 1895. =2.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._
    =67=:10. 1898. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:266. 1900. =4.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 294. 1903. =5.= _S. Dak. Sta.
    Bul._ =93=:13. 1905.

    _Compass Cherry_ 2. _Heideman Sand Cherry._

In 1891 H. Knudson of Springfield, Minnesota, pollinated the Sand Cherry
with pollen from the Danish Morello cherry and the Miner plum. The seed
of the resulting cross, beyond question that of the Sand Cherry and
the plum, was planted on August seventh of the same year and, in 1894
produced fruit for the first time. In 1893 C. W. H. Heideman of New Ulm,
Minnesota, secured a cion from this tree and another the following year.
In 1895 Heideman introduced as his own, under the name of Heideman Sand
Cherry, a hybrid between the Sand Cherry and a plum. In the controversy
which followed it developed that the two hybrids were identical and that
Knudson was the real originator. Subsequently C. W. Sampson of Eureka,
Minnesota, introduced Knudson’s plum under the name Compass. The variety
is of interest to plant-breeders and may have some commercial value in
the Northwest but is worthless for its fruit in New York.

    Tree inferior in size, spreading, open-topped, productive;
    branches and branchlets slender, the branchlets marked by very
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds plump; leaves
    folded upward, one and one-eighth inches wide, three inches
    long; margin serrate; petiole tinged red, glandless or with
    from one to three globose glands usually on the base of the
    leaf; blooming season late, of medium length; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, seven-eighths inch across, creamy-white as
    the buds unfold; borne on lateral spurs, in threes and fours.

    Fruit early, season short; seven-eighths inch by three-quarters
    inch in size, ovate or roundish-oval, light red changing
    to dark red at maturity, the skin speckled with small red
    dots before fully ripe; skin tough, astringent; flesh light
    greenish-yellow, very juicy, melting, subacid except near the
    skin; poor; stone clinging, five-eighths inch by three-eighths
    inch in size, large, elongated-oval, with smooth surfaces.


COPPER

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 234. 1817. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:93. 1832. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 425. 1854. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 906. 1869. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875.
    =6.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:183. 1897. =7.= Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 98. 1901.

    _Copper_ 2. _French Copper_ 3, 4. French Copper 1, 2, 6.

It is supposed that Copper came from France but very little is actually
known regarding its history. The round early variety described by Coxe
and Prince is distinct from the Copper now grown in this country. It
is probable that the Copper of Downing and of the American Pomological
Society are either distinct, or are early strains of the fruit described
here, since both are mid-season plums while the variety of the following
description is distinctly late. This old sort has been recommended of
late by nurserymen and some plum-growers and it may be worth putting on
the markets again as the trees are extremely productive, the fruit ships
well, and its extreme lateness might extend the plum season. The fruit
is not fit for dessert but makes an attractive, dark red, well-flavored
sauce.

    Tree variable in size and vigor, round and dense-topped,
    productive; branches numerous, with large lenticels; branchlets
    twiggy, marked with scarf-skin, glabrous throughout the season;
    leaves folded upward, obovate or oval, one and one-half inches
    wide, three and one-half inches long; upper surface rugose;
    margin serrate or crenate, eglandular or with small dark
    glands; petiole pubescent, tinged red, glandless or with one or
    two globose glands; blooming time mid-season, short; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, seven-eighths inch across; borne
    singly or in pairs.

    Fruit very late, season of medium length; one and one-half
    inches by one and three-eighths inches in size, roundish-oval,
    slightly necked; cavity almost lacking; color a metallic
    brownish-purple, overspread with thick bloom; skin thick,
    tough, somewhat astringent; flesh dull yellow, medium juicy,
    firm, moderately sweet; poor; stone free, seven-eighths inch by
    one-half inch in size, irregular-ovate, abruptly contracted at
    the base, with roughened surfaces; dorsal suture prominent.


CRITTENDEN

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 695. 1884. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 426.
    1889. =3.= _Am. Gard._ =14=:146. 1893. =4.= _Guide Prat._ 163,
    353. 1895. =5.= _Rural N. Y._ =55=:622. 1896. =6.= _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =131=:184. 1897. =7.= _Garden_ =53=:266. 1898. =8.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 127, 128. 1901.

    Crittenden’s Damson 2. _Crittenden’s Prolific Damson_ 2.
    Crittenden’s 1. _Crittenden’s Prolific_ 1. _Cluster_ 1. Cluster
    3, 8. _Cluster Damson_ 2. Cluster Damson 4. _Damson Cluster_
    4. Farleigh Damson 6. _Farleigh Prolific_ 7. Farleigh 5.
    _Prolific_ 1. _Prolific Damson_ 2.

This Damson came to notice early in the last century in the orchard
of James Crittenden of East Farleigh, Kent, England. In both Europe
and America it seems to be as well known under the names Farleigh and
Cluster as under its true name. Crittenden ranks high among the Damsons
in England but in America it is not a great favorite; just why is hard
to say. It is likely that it fails in some tree-character, for, with the
exception of being a little too tart, the fruit has few faults.

    Tree of medium size, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    productive; branches very thorny and spinescent; branchlets
    pubescent throughout the season; leaf-buds plump; leaves folded
    upward, obovate or oval, one and one-eighth inches wide, two
    and one-half inches long, thin; margin finely serrate, with
    small dark glands; petiole one-half inch long, glandless or
    with one or two glands; blooming season intermediate in time
    and length; flowers appearing after the leaves, seven-eighths
    inch across, densely clustered; borne usually in twos, fragrant.

    Fruit late, season of medium length; seven-eighths inch
    by three-quarters inch in size, oval, slightly necked,
    purplish-black, overspread with very thick bloom; flesh
    greenish-yellow, medium juicy, firm but tender, sour,
    sprightly; probably good for preserves; stone clinging,
    five-eighths inch by three-eighths inch in size, oval, acute at
    the base, with surfaces nearly smooth.


CZAR

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 693. 1884. =2.= Ellwanger & Barry _Cat._
    27. 1886. =3.= _Gard. Chron._ =10=:333. 1891. =4.= _Guide
    Prat._ 153, 359. 1895. =5.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:183.
    1897. =6.= Rivers _Cat._ 34. 1898. =7.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:242, 244. 1899. =8.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:159. 1899.
    =9.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 99. 1901. =10.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_
    =4=:157. 1901. =11.= Nicholson _Dict. Gard._ =3=:166. =12.=
    _Garden_ =68=:303. 1905. =13.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:236, 237
    fig., 254, 255. 1905.

    Le Czar 4. The Czar 2, 6, 11. _The Czar_ 4.

Czar seems to have a very good reputation in Europe, in England
especially, as a culinary fruit but in America it is but second rate for
cooking and cannot be called a dessert plum at all. Its earliness might
make it valuable were it not for the fact that Clyman is as early and in
nearly all other respects is a better plum. The Czar, like Clyman, is
not quite hardy and lacks somewhat in productiveness. The stone of Czar
is usually covered with a granular, gummy exudation about the apex and
its flowers are peculiar in being more or less doubled. It is doubtful
if this variety is worth planting in New York. This plum was raised by
Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from a Prince Englebert seed
fertilized by Early Prolific. It first fruited in 1874 and was named for
the Czar of Russia who visited England during the same year. Ellwanger &
Barry, of Rochester, New York, offered it for sale in the United States
in 1886.

    Tree intermediate in size and vigor, round and open-topped,
    not always hardy, moderately productive; branches covered
    with many fruit-spurs, smooth except for the numerous raised
    lenticels and transverse cracks in the bark; branchlets covered
    with thick pubescence throughout the season, with numerous
    small lenticels; leaf-buds large, strongly free; leaves folded
    upward, oval, one and three-quarters inches wide, three inches
    long; petiole one-half inch long, thick, pubescent, eglandular
    or with one or two large, yellowish-green glands at the base
    of the leaf; blooming season intermediate in time, short;
    flowers appearing after the leaves, one inch or more across,
    white, with a yellowish tinge at the apex of the petals; borne
    in clusters on lateral spurs, in pairs or in threes; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous except at the base,
    slightly longer than the stamens.

    Fruit very early, season short; one and one-half inches
    in diameter, irregular roundish-oval, compressed, dark
    purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; flesh yellow,
    coarse and somewhat granular, fibrous, tender, sweet, pleasant
    flavor; good; stone free, three-quarters inch by five-eighths
    inch in size, oval or slightly ovate, blunt at the base,
    somewhat acute at the apex, with ridged and roughened surfaces;
    ventral suture wide, broadly furrowed, with a short blunt wing;
    dorsal suture acute or with a narrow, shallow, indistinct
    groove.


DAMSON

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629. =2.= Gerard Herball 1496,
    1498. 1636. =3.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 67. 1699. =4.= Langley
    _Pomona_ 94. 1724. =5.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803.
    =6.= _Am. Gard. Cat._ 588. 1806. =7.= Phillips _Com. Orch._
    306. 1831. =8.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 145, 146. 1831. =9.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 297. 1845. =10.= Thomas _Am. Fruit
    Cult._ 342. 1849. =11.= _Pom. Soc. Cat._ 86. 1862. =12.= Hooper
    _W. Fr. Book_ 244. 1857. =13.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:69. 1873.
    =14.= Manning _Hist. Mass. Hort. Soc._ 4. 1880. =15.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 695. 1884. =16.= De Candolle _Or. Cult. Plants_
    212. 1885. =17.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 438. 1889. =18.= _Am.
    Gard._ =14=:146, 147. 1893.

    _August Pflaume_ 17. Blacke Damascene ?1. Blew Damson 1. Black
    Damascene 5. Black Damson ?8. _Black Damson_ 9, 11, 17. _Blew
    Damask_ 3. Black Damosine 4. _Blue Damson_ 10, 11. _Bullace_
    17. Common Damson 6, 15. _Common Damson_ 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 17.
    Damascene 2. _Damascene_ 7, 16. _Damson_ 17. Damas Noir ?8.
    Damascus ?8. Damas Commun 13. _Early Damson_ of many 9, 10,
    17. _Haber Pflaume_ 17. _Hafer Schlehe_ 17. _Jakobs Pflaume_
    17. _Kleine Blaue Julians Pflaume_ 17. _Kreke_ 17. Krieche
    17. _Purple Damson_ 9, 10, 17. _Prunus Insititia_ 17. _Round
    Damson_ 8, 15. Round Black Damson ?8. _Small Round Damson_
    8. _Sankt-Julians Pflaume_ 17. _Schlehen Pflaume_ 17. _Wahre
    Schlehen Damascene_ 17. _Zipperle_ 17. _Zipperlein_ 17.

The common Damson, the Damson of the ancients, probably little changed
since before Christ’s time, is still worthy of cultivation even though
a score or more of its offspring are offered to take its place. In
productiveness, vigor of tree and hardiness it is scarcely surpassed by
any of its kind and while its fruits are smaller and more astringent
than the best of its offspring they are not surpassed for the chief use
of all Damsons—the making of preserves. The chief asset of the Damson
is its great adaptability to various soils and climates, surpassing all
newcomers of its type in this respect. So while undoubtedly some of
the improved Damsons surpass the parent variety under many conditions,
there yet remain localities in which the original stock is possibly most
valuable.

The Damson takes its name from Damascus from whence it was brought into
Italy at least a century before the Christian era. What is a Damson?
In England and America it is an oval, usually black, Insititia. The
European continental countries have an entirely different conception of
a Damson from that of the English and Americans. The Germans speak of
our common plums as Damson-like, while the French use the term Damas
indiscriminately. The English, however, have not always made a sharp
distinction for Parkinson in 1629 speaks of the great Damaske or Damson
Plummes as sweet prunes imported from France and Gerard in 1636 described
the Damson tree as synonymous to the Plum. The term Damson is applied to
a group as well as to a variety. For a further history of this plum in
Europe and America see the index for references to the Damson in Chapter
I.


DAWSON

_Prunus domestica_

    _Dawson Seedling._ _American Prune._

Dawson is a prune-like plum characterized by an elongated neck, a
peculiar putty-like color of flesh and by large size. The quality is very
good and the trees in all characters are well up to the average of those
of the plums on the Station grounds. The plum is worthy a more extensive
trial than it has yet had. The following history of the variety is given
by its originator: In 1884, P. P. Dawson of Payette, Idaho, planted a
lot of Italian prune pits. In 1891 one of the seedlings produced fruit
which was so distinct as to size that Mr. Dawson deemed it worthy of
propagation. The variety was introduced by Mr. Dawson and A. F. Hitt,
Weiser, Idaho, about 1898.

    Tree above medium in size, vigorous, round and dense-topped,
    productive; branchlets thick, short, twiggy, marked with
    scarf-skin; leaf-scars prominent; leaves flattened, oval, two
    and one-quarter inches wide, four inches long, dark green,
    rugose; margin doubly crenate, eglandular or with small dark
    glands; petiole pubescent, glandless or with one or two small
    glands usually at the base of the leaf; blooming season late,
    short; flowers appearing with the leaves, white with yellowish
    tinge; petals fringed at the apex.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; medium in size,
    strongly obovate, distinctly necked, dark reddish-purple,
    overspread with medium thick bloom; flesh light but dull
    yellow, tinged red near the surface, dry, firm, medium sweet,
    mild but pleasant; of good quality; stone clinging, above
    medium in size, long-oval or ovate, flattened, distinctly
    necked, with roughened surfaces; ventral suture broad, blunt.


DECAISNE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =23=:461. 1863. =2.= Mas _Pom. Gen._
    =2=:43. 1873. =3.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 411. 1887. =4.=
    _Guide Prat._ 159. 1895.

    _Decaisnes Pflaume_ 2. Prune Decaisne 1, 2.

Though a supposed seedling of Golden Drop this variety has all of the
ear-marks of one of the Reine Claude group. It is inferior to several
other plums of the last named group and is not worth recommendation.
Decaisne was originated about 1846 by Jamin and Durand, nurserymen, at
Bourg la-Reine, near Paris, France, from seed of Golden Drop. In the
United States, it has been mainly distributed by Ellwanger & Barry of
Rochester, New York, and by the California Nursery Company of Niles,
California.

    Tree intermediate in size and vigor, upright-spreading, rather
    open-topped, productive; trunk rough; leaves two inches wide,
    four inches long, oval, thick, leathery; upper surface rugose;
    lower surface thinly pubescent; petiole with from two to three
    large, globose or reniform glands.

    Fruit mid-season or later; one and seven-eighths inches by one
    and five-eighths inches in size, oblong-oval, greenish-yellow,
    overspread with thin bloom; skin sour; flesh greenish-yellow,
    tender, mild; good; stone clinging, one inch by seven-eighths
    inch in size, broad-oval, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture
    rather prominent, heavily grooved, with a short but distinct
    wing; dorsal suture wide, deep.


DE CARADEUC

[Illustration: DE CARADEUC]

_Prunus cerasifera_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1871. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    38. 1877. =3.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 418. 1883. =4.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =38=:66, 71, 86. 1892. =5.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 212.
    1898. =6.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =13=:369. 1900. =7.= Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 230. 1901. =8.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 310. 1903.
    =9.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:274. 1904. =10.= _Ga. Hort. Soc.
    Cat._ 13. 1905.

    Caradeuc 1.

De Caradeuc is without value in this climate for its fruit and is
described at length and illustrated in _The Plums of New York_ only
because it is one of the few representatives of _Prunus cerasifera_
cultivated for its fruit. The plums are garnet-red, very attractive in
appearance and are borne so much earlier than those of other species
that the variety may be worth planting in home orchards to lengthen the
season and for the sake of variety. This plum is grown rather commonly
in the South where the fruits are said to keep well and not rot. The
trees are handsome ornamentals bearing remarkably rich, green foliage and
a profusion of white flowers which are followed by beautifully colored
fruits. The variety can be recommended for lawn or park where a small,
compact, flowering tree is wanted.

De Caradeuc originated with A. De Caradeuc, Aiken, South Carolina,
between 1850 and 1854. Mr. De Caradeuc brought plum trees from France
and planted them in the vicinity of several native plum trees. From the
seed of the former he produced this variety. The originator believed
his new plum to be a hybrid but practically all students of plum botany
think that it is a pure offshoot of _Prunus cerasifera_. The variety was
introduced by P. J. Berckmans of Augusta, Georgia. In 1877 De Caradeuc
was placed on the American Pomological Society fruit catalog list where
it is still maintained.

    Tree very large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, variable
    in productiveness; trunk rough; branches slender, roughish or
    smooth, dark ash-gray, with numerous, large, raised lenticels;
    branchlets very numerous, twiggy, slender, medium to long, with
    long internodes, tinged with red when young, changing to dull
    reddish-brown, glossy, glabrous, with few, small lenticels;
    leaf-buds very small and short, obtuse, appressed.

    Leaves numerous on the branchlets, becoming scattering in the
    interior of the tree, folded upward, oval, one and one-eighth
    inches wide, two inches long, thin; upper surface dark green,
    sparingly pubescent, smooth, with broadly grooved midrib;
    lower surface pale green, pubescent; apex acute, base broadly
    cuneate, margin often in two series of fine serrations,
    without glands; petiole slender, one-half inch long, slightly
    pubescent, tinged red, eglandular or with one or two very
    small, globose, greenish glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season rather early, short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, seven-eighths inch across, white; borne
    on lateral buds and spurs; pedicels eleven-sixteenths inch
    long, below medium in thickness, glabrous, green; calyx-tube
    reddish, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse,
    slightly glandular-serrate, pubescent, strongly reflexed;
    petals roundish or ovate, crenate, not clawed; anthers yellow;
    filaments one-quarter inch in length; pistil glabrous, longer
    than the stamens, somewhat defective.

    Fruit very early, season short; one and one-quarter inches
    in diameter, roundish, halves usually equal; cavity shallow
    and narrow, abrupt, regular; suture a dark red line; apex
    roundish; color light or dark crimson-red over a yellow ground,
    overspread with thin bloom; dots few, light russet, clustered
    about the apex; stem slender, eleven-sixteenths inch in length,
    glabrous, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, tough, parting
    readily; flesh medium yellow, very juicy, fibrous, tender
    and melting, slightly sweet, lacking in flavor; inferior in
    quality; stone clinging, five-eighths inch by one-half inch
    in size, roundish-oval, turgid, blunt, with somewhat pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture acute, furrowed; dorsal suture
    distinctly and broadly grooved.


DE SOTO

[Illustration: DE SOTO]

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 225. 1877. =2.= _Ia. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 356. 1879. =3.= _Ibid._ 159. 1880. =4.= _Ibid._ 237.
    1882. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 42. 1883. =6.= _Ia. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 366. 1883. =7.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 63. 1890.
    =8.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:37, 86. 1892. =9.= _Wis. Sta.
    Bul._ =63=:24, 35, 36, fig. 16. 1897. 10. Waugh _Plum Cult._
    147. 1901. 11. Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 295. 1903. =12.=
    _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:30. 1903. =13.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._
    =93=:15. 1905.

    Traer 3. Trayer 4.

De Soto probably holds first place among the Americana plums in the favor
of fruit-growers. The qualities which commend it are: A tree rather
better suited to the orchard than other varieties of _Prunus americana_
having little of the waywardness of most sorts of its species and
somewhat the manner of growth of the European plums. The trees, too, are
enormously productive, so much so that in many cases their vitality is
weakened by over-bearing unless thinned. The fruits of De Soto, while not
as large nor as brilliantly colored as some of the Americanas, are not
surpassed by any of the native plums in quality and keep and ship as well
as any. The variety becomes, therefore, a market sort of value in some
regions. The fruits are a little more subject to curculio than those of
most of the native plums and the trees blight in the South somewhat and
do not stand the drouths of the Mississippi Valley as well as some other
varieties. Notwithstanding these defects, speaking generally, the De Soto
may be recommended as one of the best of its species.

De Soto was found on the bank of the Mississippi River near De Soto,
Wisconsin. The first settler to call attention to the plum was a Mr.
Tupper who settled on the land where it was found in 1853 or 1854. The
Trayer Brothers bought the place in 1855 and in clearing the farm they
removed all the plum trees except a grove of what was at first called
Trayer, afterwards De Soto. Later Stephen Heal came into possession
of the property and in 1864 Elisha Hale, Lansing, Iowa, commenced to
cultivate and disseminate the variety. De Soto was placed on the American
Pomological Society fruit catalog list in 1883, dropped in 1891, and
restored again in 1897.

    Tree small, intermediate in vigor, spreading, open-topped,
    perfectly hardy, produces heavy crops annually, bears young;
    branches rough and shaggy, somewhat zigzag, thorny, dark
    ash-brown, with inconspicuous, small, raised, lenticels;
    branchlets numerous, long, green, changing to dull
    reddish-brown, pubescent at first, becoming glabrous late
    in the season, with conspicuous, large, raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds below medium in size, pointed, appressed.

    Leaves falling early, folded upward, oval, one and
    three-quarters inches wide, four inches long; upper surface
    dark green changing to greenish-yellow, glossy, with scattering
    hairs and a narrow, grooved midrib; lower surface finely
    pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base somewhat abrupt, margin
    very coarsely and deeply doubly serrate, petiole five-eighths
    inch long, of medium thickness, pubescent, tinged red,
    glandless or with one or two globose, brownish glands on the
    stalk.

    Blooming season medium to late and of average length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across,
    white; borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs, in twos and
    threes; pedicels eleven-sixteenths inch in length, below medium
    in thickness, covered with short, thick pubescence, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes somewhat
    acute, eglandular, thickly pubescent on both surfaces, with a
    swollen ring at the base of the lobes, semi-reflexed; petals
    oblong or ovate, erose, tapering abruptly into long, narrow
    claws; anthers yellowish; filaments three-eighths inch in
    length; pistil glabrous, equal to or shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and one-half
    inches in diameter, roundish, varying to oval or ovate,
    compressed, often strongly truncate at the base; cavity shallow
    or medium, abrupt; suture very shallow or a line; apex roundish
    or somewhat pointed; color yellowish-red becoming a light or
    dark crimson over an orange-yellow ground, overspread with thin
    bloom; dots very numerous, small, light russet, inconspicuous;
    stem rather slender, three-quarters inch long, sparingly
    pubescent; skin thick, tough, very astringent, clinging to the
    pulp; flesh golden-yellow, very juicy, fibrous, tender and
    melting, of medium sweetness, mild; fair to good; stone nearly
    free, seven-eighths inch in size, oval, turgid, blunt-pointed,
    smooth; ventral suture bluntly acute and with slight furrows;
    dorsal suture acute, not furrowed.


DIAMOND

[Illustration: DIAMOND]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831. =2.= Kenrick _Am.
    Orch._ 259. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 298. 1845. =4.=
    Lee _Gen. Farmer_ =6=:141. 1845. 5. _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 222,
    244. 1858. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 696. 1884. =7.= _Mich. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 327. 1889. =8.= _Guide Prat._ 159, 355. 1895. =9.=
    _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 382. 1895. =10.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =131=:183, fig. 40 VI. 1897. =11.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 25.
    1897. =12.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:214, 217. 1899. =13.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:244. 1899. =14.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 92. 1899. =15.= _Garden_ =56=:168. 1899. =16.= _Can. Exp.
    Farm Bul._ =43=:33. 1903. =17.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 423.
    1903.

    Black Diamond 9. _Black Diamond_ 11, 13. _Diamant_ 8.
    _Diamantpflaume_ 8. Dymond 15. Kentish Diamond 17. Kingston 14
    incor. Smith’s Prune 7. _Smith Prune_ 14.

To judge Diamond by appearance would be a grievous error. It is a large,
beautifully colored, well-formed plum, tempting the palate; but one taste
out of hand is a sufficiency. The flesh is coarse and the flavor not at
all pleasant to one accustomed to good plums. Hogg says, in the reference
given, that Diamond is one of the best preserving and cooking plums but
in this case we doubt Hogg’s judgment unless, as may be, Diamond is much
better in England than in America. The firm flesh and tough skin of the
variety commend it as a market plum and the trees are above the average
in size, vigor, hardiness and productiveness—all characters excepting
quality bespeaking the favor of plum-growers. It is planted largely for
the markets where, of course, it sells upon its appearance.

According to Downing, this variety was raised from seed by an Englishman,
in Kent, named Diamond. Kenrick and Hogg, however, state that it was
raised in the nursery of a Mr. Hooker, in Kent. The London Horticultural
Society briefly described this variety in its fruit catalog for 1831 so
that its origin antedates that year. The American Pomological Society
rejected Diamond for its catalog in 1858 but placed it in its fruit list
in 1897.

    Tree above average in size and vigor, upright-spreading,
    somewhat dense-topped, hardy, very productive; branches
    ash-gray, roughish, with numerous, small lenticels, the bark
    marked with transverse lines; branchlets of medium thickness
    and length, with long internodes, greenish-red changing to dark
    brownish-red, dull, somewhat pubescent, with numerous, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds large, long, pointed, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate or oval, one and seven-eighths
    inches wide, three and one-quarter inches long; upper surface
    dark green, with few hairs and with a grooved midrib; lower
    surface pubescent; apex obtuse to acute, base acute, margin
    serrate, with small, brown glands; petiole five-eighths inch
    long, slender, pubescent, reddish, with from one to four small,
    globose or reniform, greenish-yellow glands on the stalk or
    base of the leaf.

    Blooming season early or medium, short; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one inch across, the buds yellow-tipped changing
    to white on expanding; borne on lateral spurs, in pairs;
    pedicels five-eighths inch long, somewhat slender, pubescent,
    green; calyx-tube greenish, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes
    broad, obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate,
    reflexed; petals broadly oval or roundish, entire or slightly
    crenate, tapering to short, broad claws; anthers roundish,
    yellow; filaments five-sixteenths inch in length; pistil
    lightly pubescent at the base, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and seven-eighths
    inches by one and three-quarters inches in size, oval, slightly
    necked, swollen on the ventral side, compressed; cavity
    very narrow and abrupt; suture shallow, often a line; apex
    roundish or pointed; color deep reddish-purple changing to
    dark purplish-black at full maturity, with thick bloom; dots
    numerous, small, russet, inconspicuous; stem slender, one inch
    long, finely pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin,
    rather sour, separating readily; flesh pale or golden-yellow,
    sometimes with a faint red tinge next the skin, not juicy,
    coarse, firm but rather tender, mild subacid to nearly sweet,
    not high in flavor; of fair quality; stone with a trace of red,
    semi-clinging, one and one-eighth inches by five-eighths inch
    in size, long-oval, necked at the base, abruptly sharp-pointed
    at the apex, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture rather broad,
    lightly furrowed; dorsal suture widely grooved.


DOUBLE FLOWERING GAGE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:92. 1768. =2.= Knoop
    _Fructologie_ 57. 1771. =3.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:32, Tab.
    179 fig. 2. 1796. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:49. 1832. =5.=
    _Mag. Hort._ =9=:165. 1843. =6.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 316.
    1845. =7.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846. =8.= Mas _Pom. Gen._
    =2=:47. 1873. =9.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 363. 1895.

    Die grosse Königin Klaudia Pflaume mit halbgefullter Bluthe 3.
    _Dauphin à Fleurs semi-doubles_ 5. _Dauphin à Fleurs doubles_
    5. _Dauphin à fleurs semi-doubles_ 5. _Double-blossomed_ 5.
    Double-blossomed Plum 6. _Gelbe Reneclode Mit Gefullter Bluthe_
    8. _Prune à Fleurs Doubles_ 8. Prunier à fleurs semi-double
    8. Prunier à fleur semi-double 1, 7. Prune à Fleurs Doubles
    2. _Prunier à fleur semi-double_ 4. _Prune Semi-double_ 4.
    _Prune à fleurs semi-double_ 4. _Reine-Claude Semi-Double_ 8.
    _Reine-Claude à fleur semi-double_ 4. _Reine-Claude à Fleurs
    Semi-double_ 5, 9. _Reine-Claude mit Halbgefullter Bluthe_ 9.
    _Semi-double flowering Reine Claude_ 4.

This is an ornamental variety of the Reine Claude type first noted by
Duhamel in 1768. It was probably well known in Europe at this time for a
little later it was mentioned by Knoop of Holland and Kraft of Austria.
Duhamel described two varieties; one with small fruit which was insipid
when over-ripe, and the other large and of good flavor. In 1846, Poiteau
thought the latter was probably identical with a variety growing at
Luxembourg but he did not think the former was extant. In the third
edition of the London Horticultural Society’s catalog, yellow and purple
forms were mentioned, showing that the variety has been represented by
more than one type. It is worthy of note that the double blossoms,
except in strong soils, are apt to degenerate and become single. The
following description is compiled.

    Tree irregular and spreading, unproductive; branches brown
    on the shaded side and blood-red on the sunny side; flowers
    large, semi-double, with from twelve to eighteen petals; fruit
    mid-season; large, spherical; suture shallow, sometimes a line;
    flesh greenish-yellow, tender, soft, juicy, sweet, agreeably
    aromatic; clingstone.


DOWNING

[Illustration: DOWNING]

_Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 287, 1887. =2.= _Ibid._ 275, 448.
    1893. =3.= _Ibid._ 334. 1894. =4.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24,
    30. 1897. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 24. 1897. =6.= _Waugh Plum
    Cult._ 185. 1901. =7.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:12. 1901. =8.=
    _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:269. 1900. =9.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 445.
    1903. =10.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:247 fig., 254, 255. 1905.
    =11.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:15. 1905.

    Charles Downing 1, 2, 3, 4, 7. _Charles Downing_ 5, 6, 8, 11.

Downing is one of the best varieties of its species. The trees are large,
usually productive, not often sterile as are some of its near of kin
sorts and for a southern plum the variety is remarkably hardy, never
having suffered in Geneva from cold. The only fault that can be found
with the tree is that the foliage is quite susceptible to the shot-hole
fungus. The fruit is particularly attractive with its bright, solid,
garnet-red skin, golden flesh and sweet, pleasant flavor. Unfortunately
the flesh is a little too fibrous and clings too tenaciously to the stone
for pleasant eating. Downing adds a pleasing variety to any collection of
plums and in some regions ought to sell with profit to the grower for the
markets.

H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa, grew Downing from seed of the Wild Goose,
which the originator thinks was fertilized by some Americana variety.
The Downing, however, shows no traces of Americana parentage. It is
reported as originating in 1882 and first fruiting in 1885. The American
Pomological Society placed this variety on its fruit catalog list in 1897.

    Tree large, spreading, flat-topped, hardy in New York, variable
    in productiveness; branches rough, dark gray, with a few large
    lenticels; branchlets slender, with very short internodes,
    greenish-red changing to dull reddish-brown, glossy, somewhat
    pubescent, with numerous, small, slightly raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, broadly lanceolate, peach-like, one and
    three-eighths inches wide, three inches long, thin; upper
    surface reddish late in the fall, smooth, glabrous, with
    deeply grooved midrib; lower surface glabrous except along
    the midrib and larger veins; apex taper-pointed, margin very
    finely serrate, eglandular or sometimes with small dark glands;
    petiole thirteen-sixteenths inch long, slender, tinged with
    red, pubescent along one side, glandless or with from one to
    five small, globose, yellowish-red glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season medium to late, long; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one and one-sixteenth inches across, the buds
    yellow-tipped changing to white when expanded, with a strong,
    disagreeable odor; borne in dense clusters on lateral buds
    and spurs, in threes; pedicels eleven-sixteenths inch in
    length, very slender, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes below medium in width, acute,
    finely pubescent on the inner surface only, somewhat reflexed,
    glandular-serrate, the glands numerous and dark colored;
    petals oval, narrow, long, crenate, tapering beneath to long,
    narrow claws; anthers pale yellow, with a faint reddish tinge;
    filaments seven-sixteenths inch in length; pistil slender,
    glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; about one and
    one-eighth inches in diameter, rather large for its class,
    roundish-ovate, not compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow,
    narrow, flaring; suture very shallow and obscure; apex roundish
    or slightly conical; color garnet-red, with thin bloom; dots
    numerous, variable in size, grayish-yellow, conspicuous,
    clustered around the apex; stem slender, about three-eighths
    inch in length, glabrous, parting readily from the fruit;
    skin thin, slightly astringent, adhering but little; flesh
    golden-yellow, juicy, coarse, fibrous, tender and somewhat
    melting, very sweet next the skin but tart toward the center,
    aromatic; good; stone clinging, three-quarters inch by one-half
    inch in size, oval, somewhat oblique, turgid, roughish; ventral
    suture narrow, strongly winged; dorsal suture acute, unfurrowed.


DRAP D’OR

[Illustration: DRAP D’OR]

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ =2=:69. 1699. =2.= Langley _Pomona_
    94, 97, Pl. 24 fig. 5. 1729. =3.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._
    =2=:96. 1768. =4.= Knoop _Fructologie_ 57. 1771. =5.= Coxe
    _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 233 fig. 2. 1817. =6.= _Lond. Hort. Soc.
    Cat._ 146. 1831. =7.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:75. 1832. 8. Kenrick
    _Am. Orch._ 261. 1832. 9. _Mag. Hort._ =9=:163. 1843. 10.
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 274. 1845. =11.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._
    =1=:1846. =12.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 297, 383.
    1846. =13.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 516. 1859. =14.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 359, 371, 387. 1866. 15. _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 12. 1871.
    =16.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875. =17.= _Cat. Cong. Pom.
    France_ 350. 1887. =18.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889. =19.=
    _Guide Prat._ 153, 359. 1895. =20.= _Soc. Nat. Hort. France
    Pom._ 538 fig. 1904. =21.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 489, 503. 1908.

    _Cloth of Gold_ 2, 5, 7, 12, 14, 18, 19. _Cloth of Gold Plum_
    15. _Damas Jaune_ 15, 18, 19. Doppelte Mirabelle 18. Drap
    d’Or 1, 2. _Drap d’Or Pflaume_ 15. _Drap d’Or_ 7, 15, 18,
    19, 20, 21. _Double Drap d’Or_ 17. _Double Mirabelle_ 17.
    _Glauzende gelbe Mirabelle_ 15. _Glänzende Gelbe Mirabelle_
    18, 19. _Gold Pflaume_ 18. _Goldfarbige Pflaume_ 15, 18, 19.
    _Goldstoff_ 18. _Goldzeng_ 18. _Grosse Mirabelle_ ?7, 15,
    18, 19, 21. Grosse Mirabelle 8, 21. _Grosse Mirabelle Drap
    d’Or_ 18, 19. _Mirabelle_ 15, 17. Mirabelle Double 19, 21.
    _Mirabelle Double_ 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, 14, 18. _Mirabelle
    Double de Metz_ 20. _Mirabelle de Nancy_ 19, 21. Mirabelle de
    Nancy 14, 18. _Mirabelle Drap d’Or_ 15, 18, 19. Mirabellen 15.
    _Mirabelle grosse double de Metz_ 15, 18, 19. _Mirabelle Grosse
    de Nancy_ 20. Mirabelle Grosse 15, 17, 20, 21. _Mirabelle la
    grosse_ 7, 15, 18, 19. _Mirabelle Grosse_ 6, ?7, 10, 13, 14,
    15, 19. _Mirabelle Perlée_ 15, 18, 19. _Mirabelle von Metz_
    15. _Perdrigon Hâtif_ 15, 20, of some 17, 18, 19. _Perdrigon
    Jaune_ 20. Yellow Damask ?14. _Yellow Damask_ 14, 18. _Yellow
    Gage_ of some 5, 7. _Yellow Perdrigon_ 9, 10, 13, 14, 15, 18,
    19.

Drap d’Or represents a type of the plum hardly known in America but very
popular in continental Europe and most popular of all plums in France,
the chief plum-growing country of the Old World. It is probable that the
division of _Prunus insititia_ represented by Drap d’Or, the Mirabelle
plums, will thrive in America as well as the commonly grown Damsons of
the same species. These plums certainly deserve to be far more generally
planted than they now are. It is certain from the behavior of the few
trees of the Mirabelle group now growing in New York that they have very
decided merit. Drap d’Or is probably not the best of the yellow, sweet
Insititias but it is at least well worth trial.

According to _Pomologie De La France_, this variety was cited by Merlet
in 1675 and is of old and uncertain origin. Merlet placed the Mirabelle
and the Drap d’Or in the Damas class, but Poiteau thought that the
latter was probably a cross between Reine Claude and Mirabelle since
it resembled the former in quality and shape and the latter in color
and size. Yellow Damask, Mirabelle de Nancy, Yellow Perdrigon, Gross
Mirabelle and others have proved to be identical with the Drap d’Or as
tested in Europe. Whether all of the other synonyms mentioned are the
true Drap d’Or is a question; their number indicates that there are many
variations in this type of the plum. The American Pomological Society
placed Drap d’Or in its catalog list in 1875 and withdrew it in 1899.

    Tree small, upright-spreading, dense-topped, hardy, productive;
    branches ash-gray, with a brownish tinge, smooth, with very
    few, small lenticels; branchlets of average thickness and
    length, greenish-red changing to brownish-red, dull, sparingly
    pubescent throughout the entire season, with few, obscure,
    small lenticels; leaf-buds of medium size and length, conical,
    appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, oval, one and one-fourth inches wide, two
    and one-half inches long; upper surface slightly roughened,
    covered with numerous hairs, the midrib grooved; lower surface
    silvery-green, pubescent; apex pointed or acute, base abrupt,
    margin serrate or crenate, eglandular or with small dark
    glands; petiole one-half inch long, pubescent, tinged red,
    glandless or with from one to three globose, greenish-yellow
    glands usually on the stalk.

    Flowers fifteen-sixteenths inch across, the buds creamy
    changing to white when expanded; borne in clusters on lateral
    spurs, usually in pairs; pedicels nine-sixteenths inch long,
    sparingly pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    nearly glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse, pubescent on both
    surfaces, glandular-serrate, somewhat reflexed; petals broadly
    oval, crenate or sometimes notched at the apex, tapering
    below to short, broad claws; anthers yellowish; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the
    stamens in length.

    Fruit mid-season; one and one-eighth inches by one inch in
    size, roundish-oval, compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow,
    narrow, flaring; suture very shallow, often a line; apex
    roundish or depressed; color greenish-yellow changing to
    golden-yellow, somewhat mottled and blotched, occasionally with
    a faint bronze blush on the exposed cheek, overspread with
    thin bloom; dots numerous, small, whitish, inconspicuous; stem
    slender, sparingly pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin
    thin, separating readily; flesh light golden-yellow, moderately
    juicy, coarse, firm but tender, sweet, mild; of good quality;
    stone free, five-eighths inch by one-half inch in size, oval,
    flattened, nearly smooth, blunt at the base and apex; ventral
    suture wide, blunt, smooth; dorsal suture shallowly grooved.


DUANE

[Illustration: DUANE]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 25. 1828. =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._
    260. 1832. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:100. 1832. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 297. 1845. =5.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:115, 116
    fig. 36. 1846. =6.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 419. 1846.
    =7.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 343. 1849. =8.= Elliott _Fr.
    Book_ 418. 1854. =9.= _Horticulturist_ =10=:253. 1855. =10.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 191. 1856. =11.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 244,
    250. 1857. =12.= Bridgeman _Gard. Ass’t_ =3=:127. 1857. =13.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 910. 1869. =14.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._
    303, 1878. =15.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:77, fig. 39. 1866-73,
    =16.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =103=:32. 1894. =17.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =131=:184. 1897. =18.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254, 255.
    1905. =19.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 100, 102 fig. 1901.

    _Apricot_ 5 incor. _Dame Aubert Violet_ 12. Duane’s Plum 5
    incor. Duane’s Purple 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17.
    _Duane’s Purple_ 15, 19. Duane’s Purple French 1, 2, 3, 4.
    Duane’s French Purple 12. _Duane’s Large Purple_ 3. _Duane’s
    Large Orleans_ 3. _Duane’s Purple French_ 8, 9. _English Pond’s
    Seedling_ 8. Pourprée De Duane 15. _Pourprêe Duane_ 13. _Purple
    Magnum Bonum_ of some 12, 13. _Purple Egg_ of some 12. Red
    Magnum Bonum of some 9.

This handsome, purple plum, very well shown in the color-plate, is one of
the half-dozen leading fruits of its kind grown in New York, favorably
known the country over and in Europe as well. Its popularity is due to
its large size, well-turned shape, royal purple color, and firm, golden
flesh, characters which fit it admirably for the store and the stand.
But appearance is the only asset of the fruit so far as the consumer
is concerned—the flesh is dry, tough, sour and clings to the stone,
making a plum unfit for dessert though it does very well for culinary
purposes. The fruit ripens slowly and colors a week or more before ripe;
it is at its best only when fully mature. The trees excel in size, vigor
and productiveness and are usually hardy and bear their crops well
distributed and not clustered as in most varieties of plums. In minor
characters, the trees are distinguished by large leaves, pubescence on
the under side and by grayish-drab shoots covered with dense pubescence.
Duane is generally found to be a very profitable market plum and if it
were only better in quality we could heartily join in recommending it.

Duane originated as a seedling in the garden of James Duane, Duanesburgh,
New York, about 1820. For several years, the variety was distributed by
the Prince nurseries under the name Duane’s Purple French. This error
was caused by Judge Duane’s accidentally sending William Prince, of
Flushing, grafts of this seedling instead of a French plum[210] which he
had imported in 1820. When this mistake was discovered by Downing and
Tomlinson about 1846, the word French was dropped and the plum became
known as Duane’s Purple and later, according to the rules of the American
Pomological Society, as Duane. In 1856, it was listed by the American
Pomological Society as promising well and in 1862 it was placed on the
list of the fruit catalog.

    Tree large, vigorous, round and dense-topped, hardy and
    productive; branches ash-gray, smooth except for the numerous
    small, raised lenticels; branchlets medium to thick, variable
    in length, with short internodes, greenish-red changing to dark
    brownish-drab, dull, thickly pubescent, with raised lenticels
    intermediate in number and size; leaf-buds of average size and
    length, conical or pointed, free.

    Leaves folded backward, obovate or oval, one and one-half
    inches wide, three and one-half inches long; upper surface
    dark green, pubescent, rugose, with a narrow groove on the
    midrib; lower surface silvery-green, pubescent; apex acute,
    base cuneate, margin serrate, eglandular or with small amber
    glands; petiole one-half inch long, pubescent, tinged with red,
    eglandular or with one or two small, globose, greenish-brown
    glands on the stalk or base of the leaf.

    Blooming season rather early, of average length; flowers
    appearing before the leaves, one inch across, white; developing
    from lateral buds, singly or in pairs; pedicels nine-sixteenths
    inch long, thick, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, pubescent
    on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, erect; petals roundish,
    entire, short-clawed; anthers yellowish; filaments one-quarter
    inch long; pistil pubescent on the ovary, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period of average length; one and
    three-quarters inches by one and five-eighths inches in size,
    broadly oblong-oval or obovate, compressed, halves unequal;
    cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt; suture variable in depth; apex
    roundish or depressed; color dark reddish-purple changing to
    purplish-black on the sunny side, overspread with thick bloom;
    dots numerous, light russet; stem three-quarters inch long,
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin below medium in
    thickness, tough, sour, separating readily; flesh pale yellow,
    lacking in juice, firm, sour unless fully ripe; of fair
    quality; stone adhering, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths
    inch in size, oval, with pitted surfaces, blunt at the base and
    apex; ventral suture wide, blunt; dorsal suture with a broad,
    deep groove.


EARLIEST OF ALL

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ 368. 1887. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:32,
    1894. =3.= Normand _Cat._ =2.= 1895-96. =4.= Thomas _Am. Fruit
    Cult._ 516. 1897. =5.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:130, fig. 24.
    1899. =6.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 135. 1901.

    _Earliest of All_ 4. _Wasse Sumomo_ 5, 6. Wasse Sumomo 3.
    Yosobe 1. Yosete 4. _Yosebe_ 5, 6. _Yosobe_ 2. Yosebe 2.

Earliest of All was imported by H. H. Berger of San Francisco from Japan
under the name Yosebe, which later became changed to Yosobe, and in 1897
L. H. Bailey gave the variety the name Earliest of All to avoid the
confusion in the earlier nomenclature. The Wasse Sumomo introduced by
J. L. Normand, Marksville, Louisiana, in 1895, is the Earliest of All.
The variety may have some value because of its extreme earliness. It is,
however, too small, too unattractive in color and too poor in quality
ever to be other than a kitchen plum.

    Tree intermediate in size and vigor, vasiform, unproductive;
    branchlets dark red, marked with thick scarf-skin; leaf-scars
    prominent; leaves reddish late in the season, narrow-obovate,
    one and one-half inches wide, three inches long; margin finely
    serrate, with small, reddish-black glands; petiole tinged red,
    glandless or with from one to seven glands usually on the
    stalk; blooming season early; flowers appearing before the
    leaves, white with a little pink; borne in threes and fours.

    Fruit very early; one inch in diameter, roundish or
    roundish-oblong, light or dark pinkish-red, covered with thin
    bloom; flesh light yellow, rather dry, soft, inferior in
    flavor; of poor quality; stone clinging, five-eighths inch by
    three-eighths inch in size, flattened, oval.


EARLY ORLEANS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:80, Pl. XX fig. 1. 1768.
    =2.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803. =3.= _Lond. Hort.
    Soc. Cat._ 150, 151. 1831. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:62, 68.
    1832. =5.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 260, 269. 1832. =6.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 304. 1845. =7.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch.
    Gard._ 286, 289, 294, 382, 383. 1846. =8.= Poiteau _Pom.
    Franc._ =1=:1846. =9.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 516. 1859. =10.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 360. 1866. =11.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 16.
    1871. =12.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:85. 1866-73. =13.= Mathieu
    _Nom. Pom._ 430. 1882. =14.= _Traité Prat. Sech. Fruits_ 172.
    1893. =15.= _Guide Prat._ 152, 360. 1895. =16.= _Soc. Nat.
    Hort. France Pom._ 542 fig. 1904.

    _Altesse du Roi_ 16. _Damascena Dominicalis Praecox_ 13, 15.
    De Monsieur 16. _De Monsieur Hâtive_ 15. _Du Roi_ 15. _Early
    Monsieur_ 12. Early Monsieur 4, 5. _Early Orleans_ 11, 12, 13,
    15. Frühe Herrnpflaume 13. _Frühe Herrnpflaume_ 11. _Frühe
    Herzogspflaume_ 11, 13, 15. _Frühe Hernnpflaume_ 12. _Frühe
    Herrnpflaume_ 15. _Grimwood Early Orleans_ 10, 13. _Grimwood’s
    Early Orleans_ 3, 6, 9, 11, 15. _Hampton Court_ 3, 6, 7, 9, 10,
    11, 13, 15. _Königspflaume_ 11, ?13, ?15. _Monsieur_ 11, 13 &
    15 incor. Monsieur Hâtif 1, 7, 11, 12, 15. _Monsieur Hâtif_ 3,
    4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 16. _Monsieur Hâtive_ 4. _Monsieur
    Hâtif de Montmorency_ 3, 6, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15. _New Early
    Orleans_ 3, 6, 9, 11, 13, 14, 15. _New Orleans_ 3, 6, 9, 10,
    13, 15, 16. _New Orleans_ 11. _Orleans_ 3. _Prune de Monsieur
    Hâtif_ 13. Prune de Monsieur Hâtif 8. _Prune de Monsieur
    Hâtive_ 12. _Prunus damascena dominicalis praecox_ 11. Prune
    du Roi 14. _Prune du Roi_ 11, 13. _Red Orleans_ 11, 13, 15.
    Wilmot’s Early Orleans 4, 7. _Wilmot’s Early Orleans_ 3, 9, 10,
    11, 13, 15. _Wilmot’s Large Orleans_ 3, 4, 6. _Wilmot’s Late
    Orleans_ ?7. Wilmot’s New Early Orleans 3, 5, 6. _Wilmot’s New
    Early Orleans_ 7. _Wilmot’s Orleans_ 3, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15.

Early Orleans has been planted very little in America and then chiefly
because of its reputation in Europe. While it appears to be a very
good plum in most respects as it grows on the Station grounds, being
attractive in appearance, of good flavor, a freestone and firm enough
to ship well, it surpasses in none of these characters and the fruit is
so small as to make it a poor competitor among the purple plums of its
season. It does not deserve the reputation in America that pomologists
have given it in Europe. In France the Early Orleans, under the name of
Prune du Roi, is used in prune-making but it seems not to have been so
used in America.

Early Orleans is old and of unknown origin. Duhamel in 1768 considered
it a variety of the Orleans, differing only in the time of ripening but
there are additional differences as can be seen in the descriptions of
the two. It is true, however, that these two plums are very similar.
According to Kenrick, Wilmot’s New Early Orleans was raised by John
Wilmot, an Englishman. Though it may be of separate origin it is
practically identical with the Early Orleans.

    Tree small, upright-spreading, hardy, productive; branches
    ash-gray, smooth, with small, inconspicuous, oval lenticels;
    branchlets thick, with rather short internodes, covered with
    thin bloom and marked with scarf-skin, dull brownish-drab,
    pubescent, with a medium number of small, raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds intermediate in size and length, conical, free,
    plump; leaf-scars enlarged.

    Leaves folded upward, two and one-quarter inches wide, four
    inches long, roundish-oval or obovate, thick; apex abruptly
    pointed, base acute, margin crenate and with small, dark
    glands; upper surface light green, sparingly pubescent and
    with a grooved midrib; lower surface silvery-green, pubescent;
    petiole three-quarters inch long, thick, pubescent, faintly
    tinged red, with from one to three large, globose glands mostly
    on the stalk.

    Season of bloom intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, nearly one-half inch across, white,
    the buds yellow-tipped as they unfold; borne in clusters on
    short lateral spurs, in pairs; pedicels one-half inch long,
    thick, pubescent, green; calyx-tube greenish, campanulate,
    thinly pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, glandular,
    pubescent on both surfaces, reflexed; petals roundish, entire,
    not clawed; filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil
    glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

Fruit early, season short; one and one-quarter inches in diameter,
roundish-oval, slightly truncate, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow,
abrupt; suture shallow or a line; apex roundish to flattened or sometimes
depressed, often oblique; color dark reddish-purple, covered with thick
bloom; dots numerous, small, russet, inconspicuous; stem of average
thickness, five-eighths inch long, pubescent, adhering well to the fruit;
skin thin, tough, not astringent, separating readily; flesh lemon-yellow,
juicy, coarse, firm, sweet, mild but pleasant; very good; stone free,
three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in size, oval, slightly oblique,
blunt-pointed, with rough and slightly honeycombed surfaces.


EARLY RIVERS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 314, 1845. =2.= _Horticulturist_
    =4=:40. 1849. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 419. 1854. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am_. 912. 1869. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 99.
    1871. =6.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:117. 1873. =7.= _Jour. Hort._
    =30=:273. 1876. =8.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 409, 411.
    1881. =9.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 699. 1884. =10.= Mathieu _Nom.
    Pom._ 447. 1889. =11.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 470. 1894.
    =12.= _Guide Prat._ 152, 356. 1895. =13.= Rivers _Cat._ 35.
    1898.

    _Early Fruchtbare_ 12. Early Prolific 4. _Early Rivers_ 4, 10,
    12. _Early Prolific_ 2, 3, 6, 10, 12, 13. _Fertile Précoce_ 10.
    Fertile Précoce 6, 12. _Frühe Fruchtbare_ 6. Frühe Fruchtbare
    8. _Prolifique Hâtive_ 10, 12. _Rivers’ Early No. 2_ 1, 2, 3,
    4, 10. Rivers’ Early Prolific Plum 2. _Rivers’ Early Prolific_
    4, 9, 10, 12. _Rivers’ Early_ 6. River’s Early 5. Rivers’ Blue
    Prolific 7. _Rivers’ No. 2_ 9, 10, 12. Rivers Frühpflaume 8,
    11. Rivers’ Frühe Fruchtbare 10.

Early Rivers is widely known because of its earliness, productiveness,
regularity of bearing and desirability for culinary purposes. In New
York, however, the plums are so small and drop so badly as they ripen
that the variety is worthless for commercial purposes. Hogg, in the
reference given above, notes the following peculiarity of the trees of
this variety: “The original tree throws up suckers, which, when removed
and planted out, do not bloom for several years; but scions taken from
the original tree and grafted, bloom the second year. A curious fact is
that the grafted trees fruit abundantly, and the branches are so brittle
they break off; in those raised from suckers the branches never break.
The grafted trees in spring are full of bloom, sparing of shoots, and
very few leaves; the suckers are more vigorous in growth, have no bloom,
but an abundance of foliage, even when six years old.” This variety is
a seedling of Early Tours raised by Thomas Rivers of Sawbridgeworth,
England, about 1834. It was first disseminated under the names Early
Prolific and Rivers’ Early No. 2 but, in 1866, Hogg with the permission
of the originator, renamed it Early Rivers under which name it is now
generally known.

    Tree medium in size and vigor, round-topped, productive;
    branchlets thick, short, pubescent throughout the season;
    leaves roundish-oval or obovate, one and three-quarters inches
    wide, nearly three inches long, leathery; margin crenate or
    serrate, with few, small, dark glands; petiole pubescent, with
    from one to three small glands usually on the stalk; blooming
    season intermediate, short; flowers appearing after the leaves,
    seven-eighths inch across; borne on lateral buds and spurs,
    singly or in twos; petals roundish.

    Fruit early, season short; one and one-quarter inches by one
    and one-eighth inches in size, roundish-oval or ovate, dark
    purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; flesh dull yellow,
    firm, sweet, mild, pleasant; of good quality; stone semi-free,
    three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size, rather flat,
    oval, with rough and pitted surfaces.


EARLY ROYAL

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831. =2.= _Mag. Hort._
    =6=:93. 1840. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 313. 1845. =4.=
    Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 341, fig. 260. 1849. =5.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 86. 1862. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 452. 1889. =7.=
    Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:159. 1901.

    _Early Royal_ 3, 4, 6. _Marian_ 6. _Mirian_ 3, 4. _Mivian_ 2.
    _Miviam_ 6. _Miriam_ 7. Royal Hâtive 1, 2, 5, 7. Royale Hâtive
    3, 4. _Royale Hâtive_ 6. Violette Königspflaume 6.

While the fruits of Early Royal are not remarkably attractive in color,
shape or size, the quality is high and its flesh is so firm that
the variety should ship well. This sort is worthy of more extensive
trial than it has yet had in America. Early Royal is a French variety
introduced by M. Noisette of Paris, about 1830. Thompson made the first
complete description of the variety in 1839 from the fruits of a tree in
the gardens of the London Horticultural Society. Although recommended in
the catalog of the American Pomological Society in 1862 it has not been
extensively planted in this country.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, rather open, productive;
    branches and trunk roughish; branchlets thickly pubescent;
    leaf-scars enlarged; leaves folded upward, oval or obovate, one
    and three-quarters inches wide, three and three-eighths inches
    long; margin serrate, with small, dark glands; petiole thickly
    pubescent, with one or two smallish glands; blooming season
    intermediate in time and length; flowers appearing with the
    leaves, one inch across, white, tinged yellow at the apex of
    the petals; borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; about one and
    three-eighths inches in diameter, roundish-ovate, dark
    reddish-purple, marked by irregular russet streaks, covered
    with thick bloom; dots conspicuous; stem thick, pubescent;
    flesh greenish-yellow, rather dry, firm, very sweet, mild,
    pleasant flavor; very good; stone nearly free, three-quarters
    inch by five-eighths inch in size, roundish-oval, blunt at the
    apex and base, with but slightly roughened surfaces; ventral
    suture prominent and with short wing; dorsal suture with a
    wide, shallow groove.


EARLY TOURS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:67, 69. 1768. =2.= Kraft
    _Pom. Aust._ =2=:31, Tab. 177 fig. 2. 1796. =3.= _Lond. Hort.
    Soc. Cat._ 151. 1831. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:64. 1832.
    =5.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 265. 1832. =6.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._
    =1=:1846. =7.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 282, 283. 1846.
    =8.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 376. 1866. =9.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 937. 1869. =10.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:143. 1866-73. =11.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 443. 1889. =12.= _Guide Prat._ 156, 361.
    1895.

    _Blue Perdrigon_ of some 3, 9, 11, 12. Die frühe Pflaume von
    Tours 2. _De Monsieur_ 12 incor. _Damas de Tours_ 8, 9, 11.
    _Early de Tours_ 5. _Early Tours_ 7, 9, 11. _Early Violet_ 3,
    7, 9, 11, 12. Gros Damas de Tours 1. _Hâtive de Tours_ 12.
    _Madeleine_ 11, ?12. _Monsieur_ 11 incor. _Noire Hâtive_ 3, 8,
    9, 11, 12. _Perdrigon Violet_ of some 3, 9, 11, 12. Précoce
    de Tours 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. _Précoce de Tours_
    2, 4. _Prune de la Madeleine_ 4, 9, 11. _Prune noire Hâtive_
    4. _Prune de Gaillon_ 8, 9, 11. _Prune de Monsieur_ 11 incor.
    _Saint Jean_ ?11, 12. _Violette de Tours_ 8, 11. _Violette
    Hâtive_ 9, 11. _Violet de Tours_ 9, 11, 12. _Violette Hâtive_
    7. _Violet_ 7.

Duhamel described this variety, Gros Damas de Tours and Gros Noire
Hative in the same publication, his descriptions of the three varieties
being nearly identical. Following Duhamel many horticultural authorities
continued to separate the varieties, but Downing, Floy-Lindley and
Mathieu give Damas de Tours as a synonym of Early Tours, and Thompson,
Hogg, Downing, Mathieu and the _Guide Pratique_ give Noire Hative as a
synonym, while Prince holds Prune Noire Hative to be synonymous.

With this great similarity in the names and descriptions, it seems
doubtful if these are separate varieties, but not having the fruit of the
three to compare, it has been thought best in _The Plums of New York_ to
follow the nomenclature of the oldest authorities. Several writers have
also named the Blue Perdrigon and the Perdrigon Violet as identical with
Early Tours but neither can be, as all descriptions indicate that both
are at least a month later in ripening than the variety under discussion.

Early Tours is considered in continental Europe one of the best early
plums for dessert. It is said when fully ripened to be a veritable
sweetmeat. As the variety grows in the Station collection it can hardly
be lauded as highly as in Europe. Yet it is at least worthy of a place in
a home orchard as a delicious early plum.

    Tree intermediate in size, upright-spreading, rather
    open-topped, productive; branchlets thickish, pubescent;
    leaves falling early, folded upward, obovate or oval, one
    and seven-eighths inches wide, three and one-quarter inches
    long; margin crenate; petiole pubescent, glandless or with
    from one to three glands usually on the stalk; blooming season
    intermediate in time and length; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one and one-eighth inches across; borne on lateral
    spurs or from lateral buds.

    Fruit very early; one and one-quarter inches by one and
    one-eighth inches in size, slightly oval, dark purplish-black,
    covered with thick bloom; skin thick, tough, sour; flesh
    greenish-yellow, firm, sweet, pleasant flavored; good to very
    good; stone semi-free, three-quarters inch by one-half-inch in
    size, irregular oval.


EARLY YELLOW

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 575, 576. 1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_
    206, 207. 1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1688. =4.=
    Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 70. 1699. =5.= Langley _Pomona_ 90, Pl.
    20 fig. 1. 1729. =6.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:66. 1768.
    =7.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 19. 1803. =8.= Floy-Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 297, 382. 1846. =9.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 925. 1869. =10.= _Country Gent._ =41=:518. 1876. =11.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424. 1889. =12.= _Guide Prat._ 152, 354.
    1895.

    Amber Primordian 1, 2. _Amber Primordian_ 3, 8, 9, 11, 12.
    _Avant Prune blanche_ 9, 11, 12. _Bilboa_ 9, 11. Catalonia
    1, 2, 3, 12. Castellan 4. _Catalonian_ 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
    _Cerisette Blanche_ 9, 11, 12. _Castelane_ 11, 12. _Catalane_
    11, 12. _Catalonische Pflaume_ 11, 12. _Catalonischer Spilling_
    12. Catalonischer Spilling 11. _Catalonische Kricke_ 11. _De
    Catalogne_ 6, 11. De Catalogne 12. _D’Avoine_ 9, 12. _Die gelbe
    frühzeitige Pflaume_ 12. _Early Yellow_ 9, 10, 11, 12. _Early
    John_ 9, 11. _Early White Plum_ 11, 12. _Gelbe Spindel Pflaume_
    11. _Gelber Kleiner Spilling_ 11. _Gelbe Frühzeitige_ 11.
    _Gelbe frühe Pflaume_ 11, 12. _Jaune précoce_ 11, 12. _Jaune
    de Catalogne_ 9, 11, 12. Jaune Hâtive 6, 8. _Jaune Hâtive_ 11,
    12. Jaunhâtive 7. _Jean Hâtive_ 9. Jean-hâtive 5. _Jean White_
    11, 12. _Kleine gelbe Früh Pflaume_ 11, 12. _London Plumb_ 5.
    _London Plum_ 9, 11, 12. Monsieur Jaune 11 incor., 12. _Prune
    de Catalogne_ 8, 9, 11. _Prune de St. Barnabe_ 8, 9. _Prune
    d’Avoine_ 11. _Pickett’s July_ 9, 11, 12. _Prune Monsieur
    Jaune_ 9. _Prune d’Altesse blanche_ 9,? 11. Primordian 10, 11,
    12. _Prunus Catalana_ 11, 12. _Prunus Catelana_ 11. _Prunus
    Catalonica_ 11, 12. _St. Barnabée_ 9. _Saint Barnabe_ 11, 12.
    _Siebenbürger Pflaume?_ 11, 12.

The Early Yellow goes back as far as the history of plum-growing in
northwestern Europe is recorded. Because of its synonyms it is thought to
have originated in Spain whence it was gradually taken northward, crossed
the boundary and spread through the fertile valleys of France. Early in
the Seventeenth Century it was firmly established in England and was
described by Tradescant and Parkinson. From that time till the present
it has kept a place in European and American horticulture, in spite of
the introduction of hundreds of improved varieties. It is described as
follows:

    Tree hardy, moderately vigorous and productive; branches
    long, slender, upright until bent down with fruit; branchlets
    pubescent. Fruit very early, small, obovate; stem short,
    slender; color pale yellow, with thin bloom; flesh yellow,
    tender, sweet, moderately juicy, pleasant; good; freestone.


EMPIRE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _N. Y. Sta. An. Rpt._ =9=:347. 1890. =2.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =131=:184. 1897. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:241 fig.,
    254, 255. 1905. =4.= Rice Bros. _Cat._ 15. 1908.

    Empire State 4. _Rood_ 1, 2.

It is possible that Empire deserves more attention from fruit-growers
than it has had. It is attractive in appearance, pleasant in flavor and
gives promise of shipping well. Wherever the variety proves productive,
as it is to a fair degree on the grounds of the Station, this plum might
well be grown. Empire was grown by Ezra Rood, Cortland, New York, about
1875, from seed purchased at the State Fair. In 1890, E. Smith & Sons
of Geneva found this plum in Mr. Rood’s yard and procured cions of it,
afterwards introducing the variety under the name Rood. The year that
they made the discovery, John Hammond, also of Geneva, found the same
variety at another place in Cortland and secured cions from which he
subsequently disseminated the plum under the name Empire, by which it is
now generally known.

    Tree intermediate in size and vigor, spreading, open-topped,
    productive; branches covered with short, thick, fruit-spurs;
    branchlets short and stubby, pubescent throughout the season;
    leaf-scars prominent; leaves folded upward, oval or obovate,
    one and one-half inches wide, three and one-quarter inches
    long, thick, stiff; margin crenate, eglandular or with small
    dark glands; petiole thick, reddish, with a few large, globose
    or reniform glands; blooming season intermediate in time and
    length; flowers appearing after the leaves, over one inch
    across, yellowish-white; borne singly or in twos.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period very long; about one and
    five-eighths inches in diameter, round, dark reddish-purple,
    covered with medium thick bloom; dots numerous, conspicuous;
    stem thick, surrounded by a fleshy ring at the cavity; skin
    sour; flesh golden-yellow, dry, firm but tender, sweet, mild,
    pleasant in flavor; of good quality; stone nearly free,
    seven-eighths inch by three-quarters inch in size, oval,
    turgid, with roughened surfaces; ventral suture broad, with
    short but distinct wing; dorsal suture wide, deep.


ENGLEBERT

[Illustration: ENGLEBERT]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Horticulturist_ =10=:71. 1855. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 392. 1857. 3. _Cultivator_ =6=:312 fig. 1858. =4.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 376. 1866. =5.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 344.
    1867. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 24. 1871. =7.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =6=:61. 1866-73. =8.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 415. 1883. =9.= _Cat.
    Cong. Pom. France_ 357. 1887. =10.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 354.
    1891. =11.= _Guide Prat._ 154, 361. 1895. =12.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =131=:190. 1897. =13.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =27=:125.
    1898. =14.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242, 244. 1899. =15.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 101, 103 fig. 1901. =16.= _Va. Sta. Bul._
    =134=:42. 1902.

    _Englebert_ 9. Prince Englebert 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11,
    12. Prince Engelbert 10, 13. _Prince Englebert_ 15, 16. _Prinz
    Engelbert_ 11.

In common parlance Englebert is a prune, its origin, shape, color and
firm golden-yellow flesh all marking it as such, but in prune-making
regions it is usually marketed in the green state, if grown at all, and
is little used in curing. It cannot be said to be much more popular as a
plum than it is as a prune, chiefly because it is not of high quality,
but also because it is none too attractive in color, size or shape,
cutting a rather poor figure in comparison with a great number of other
Domestica plums. The variety fails in tree as well as in fruit. The trees
are variable in size, suffer from cold in exposed situations and while
rather productive bear their crops in clusters hard to pick and well
placed to insure infection from brown-rot when that disease is epidemic.
For some reason the fruit of this variety shrivels at this Station not
only after being picked, but while still on the tree. In New York,
Englebert has been thoroughly tested, has been found wanting and is not
now recommended.

This variety was obtained from a seed of the “Date Prune,” by M.
Scheidweiler, Professor of Botany at Ghent, Belgium.[211] The date
of origin has not been given, but it was probably produced about the
middle of the last century since it was described as a new fruit in
the _Horticulturist_ for 1855. Englebert was added to the American
Pomological Society catalog fruit list in 1871 under the name Prince
Englebert, but in 1897, according to the rules of the Society, the name
was simplified to Englebert.

    Tree variable in size, vasiform, dense-topped, hardy except
    in exposed locations, productive; branches ash-gray, smooth
    except for the numerous, long-oval, raised lenticels;
    branchlets thick, rather short, with internodes above medium
    in length, green changing to dark brownish-drab, dull, heavily
    pubescent throughout the season, with few, inconspicuous, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, oval or obovate, one and seven-eighths
    inches wide, three and one-quarter inches long; upper
    surface covered with very fine hairs, with a shallow groove
    on the midrib; lower surface pale green, finely pubescent;
    apex roundish-pointed, base obtuse, margin finely crenate,
    eglandular or with small dark glands; petiole three-quarters
    inch long, pubescent, faintly tinged red, glandless or with one
    or two small, globose, greenish-yellow glands at the base of
    the leaf.

    Blooming season early to medium, of average length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, about one inch across, white except
    for a yellowish tinge near the apex of the petals; borne in
    clusters on lateral buds and spurs, usually in pairs; pedicels
    one-half inch long, below medium in thickness, pubescent,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes
    obtuse, sparingly pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate
    and with marginal hairs; petals broadly oval or roundish,
    crenate, abruptly tipped with short, broad claws; stamens often
    inclined to revert to petals; anthers yellowish; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and five-eighths
    inches by one and three-eighths inches in size; oval, swollen
    on the suture side, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow,
    abrupt; suture a line; apex bluntly pointed or roundish;
    color dark purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; dots
    numerous, russet; stem three-quarters inch long, pubescent,
    adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, sourish, separating
    readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, coarse, rather firm,
    sweet, pleasant-flavored, sprightly; good; stone one and
    one-eighth inches by five-eighths inch in size, oval or broadly
    ovate, strongly flattened, with roughened and deeply pitted
    surfaces, blunt at the base and apex; ventral suture narrow,
    strongly grooved, not prominent; dorsal suture acute, with a
    shallow, often indistinct groove.


ENGRE

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= Normand _Cat._ 1891. =2.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894-1900. =3.=
    Cornell _Sta. Bul._ =175=:131. 1899. =4.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
    =32=:488. 1899.

This variety is one of the earliest of the Triflora plums and although
the flavor is not as agreeable as that of the best sorts of its species,
as Burbank or Abundance, it is much better than that of Earliest of All,
with which it competes in season. Almost nothing is known regarding
the history and origin of Engre. It was first mentioned in 1890 in the
catalog of J. L. Normand, Marksville, Louisiana, and in all probability
is one of his numerous importations from Japan. The origin of the name is
not known.

    Tree of medium size, vasiform, dense-topped, productive;
    branches slightly thorny, with numerous fruit-spurs; branchlets
    very short and stubby, glabrous; leaf-buds plump; leaves
    reddish when young, oblanceolate, one and three-eighths inches
    wide, three inches long; margin doubly crenate, with small
    brownish glands; petiole tinged red, glandless or with one
    or two small, reniform glands on the stalk; blooming season
    early; flowers appearing with the leaves, five-eighths inch
    across; borne on lateral buds and spurs, in twos or in threes;
    calyx-lobes red at the margin; anthers pinkish.

    Fruit very early; about one and one-quarter inches in diameter,
    roundish; cavity deep; color dark pinkish-red, covered with
    thin bloom; dots numerous, conspicuous; skin astringent; flesh
    yellowish, tender and melting, sweet near the surface, but sour
    next the pit, low in flavor; poor; stone clinging, five-eighths
    inch by one-half inch in size, roundish-oval, turgid; ventral
    suture broad, blunt.


ESPEREN

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =15=:298. 1849. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    380. 1857. =3.= _Flor. & Pom._ 4, Pl. 1863. =4.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 916. 1869. =5.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 1. 1871. =6.=
    Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:65. 1866-73. =7.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ 12.
    1882.

    _Cloth of Gold Esperen_ 4. _Cloth of Gold_ 2, 7. Drap d’Or
    of Esperin 1, 2. _Drap d’Or d’Esperen_ 3, 6, 7. _Drap d’Or
    Esperen_ 4. Drap d’Or d’Esperen 5. _Drap d’Or of Esperen_ 6.
    Esperen’s Goldpflaume 7. _Golden Esperen_ 5, 7. Golden Esperen
    4. Golden Esperen Plum 3.

Were there not so many handsome, well-flavored plums of the Reine Claude
group, Esperen might well be recommended to the amateur at least, for it
is first class in appearance and quality. But the fruits are small and
the tree-characters are not such that the variety can compete with the
standard Reine Claude plums. Esperen was produced from seed in 1830 by
Major Esperen of Malines, Belgium; it was first fruited in 1844, and was
introduced in 1847 by Louis Van Houtte of Ghent, Belgium. It obtained the
designation Drap d’Or from its close resemblance to that variety.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, productive; trunk
    stocky, rough; branches rough, with numerous, large, raised
    lenticels; branchlets brash; leaves flattened, two and one-half
    inches wide, five inches long, obovate or oval; margin serrate;
    petiole thick, tinged red, pubescent, with from two to five
    large, globose glands.

    Fruit mid-season; about one and one-half inches in diameter,
    roundish-oval; cavity shallow, narrow, often lipped; color
    yellow streaked and mottled with green, overspread with thin
    bloom; skin thin, tender, rather sour; flesh yellow, tender,
    sweet, aromatic; of good quality; stone free, one inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, oval, with pitted surfaces; ventral
    suture blunt; dorsal suture wide, deep.


EXCELSIOR

_Prunus triflora_ × _Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Glen St. Mary Cat._ 1891-2. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat_. 26.
    1897. =3.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:11. 1898. =4.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    =68=:9, 36. 1905.

Excelsior has not fruited on the Station grounds and is placed in the
list of leading varieties because of the prominence given it in the above
references. The variety was originated by G. L. Tabor, Glen Saint Mary,
Florida, in 1887, from seed of Kelsey supposed to have been pollinated by
Wild Goose, although some authorities believe De Caradeuc to have been
the male parent. It seems to be a promising variety and was mentioned in
the last three catalogs of the American Pomological Society.

Tree vigorous, vasiform; branches slender; leaves of medium size, narrow;
margin finely crenulate, glandular; petiole short, with from one to three
small glands; flowers small, scattered; fruit early; of medium size,
roundish, dark red with heavy bloom; skin tough; flesh firm, yellowish
with red tinge towards the center; quality good; stone of medium size,
compressed, clinging.


FIELD

[Illustration: FIELD]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 288. 1889. =2.= _Am. Gard._
    =14=:50, 395. 1893. =3.= _Rural N. Y_. =55=:622. 1896. =4.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:184. 1897. =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:244. 1899. =9.= _Ibid._ =187=:77, 78. 1901. =7.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 101, 104 fig. 1901. =8.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =162=:239, 240 fig., 254, 255. 1905.

    _Early Bradshaw_ 2.

This offspring of Bradshaw resembles its parent in tree, and in size,
color and shape of fruit, though not so closely as to be readily mistaken
for the older variety. Differences which distinguish the fruits of the
two are: The Field is a trifle smaller, the fruit is more nearly round,
lacking the prolonged neck of Bradshaw and is more plump at the base,
the parent plum being markedly obovate; Field is earlier than Bradshaw,
the latter difference accounting for the synonym, “Early Bradshaw.” The
quality is not such as to commend either of these plums, but of the two
Field is slightly the better. In tree-characters, Bradshaw excels in
having a larger tree and in being more productive. The foliage of Field
is very good, it ripens its wood well and begins to bear while young,
but it is inclined to a biennial bearing habit which makes the average
in quantity of fruit a little too low for a market plum which Field is,
if worth planting at all. A good quality of this variety is that it
withstands the brown-rot very well. It is doubtful if Field is worthy
of a place in the fruit-growing regions of New York, unless, perhaps,
where a plum of the Bradshaw type, but a little earlier, is wanted. Like
Bradshaw, Field is comparatively little attacked by San José scale.

Field is a seedling of Bradshaw grown in Schoharie County, New York. It
was first noted by S. D. Willard of Geneva, New York, in 1889, as “a
variety worthy of cultivation.”

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, dense-topped,
    hardy, productive; branches ash-gray, smooth except for the
    numerous, small, raised lenticels; branchlets slender, short,
    with internodes of medium length, greenish-red changing to
    brownish-drab, with a trace of red, dull, pubescent becoming
    slightly less so at maturity, with numerous, inconspicuous,
    small lenticels; leaf-buds below medium in size, short, obtuse,
    appressed.

    Leaves folded backward, obovate, two and one-sixteenth inches
    wide, four and three-eighths inches long; upper surface dark
    green, nearly glabrous, with shallowly grooved midrib; lower
    surface sparingly pubescent; apex abruptly pointed, base acute,
    margin serrate, with a few, smallish, black glands; petiole
    seven-eighths inch long, thick, tinged with red, sparingly
    pubescent.

    Season of bloom intermediate, short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one inch across, white, with a yellowish
    tinge at the apex of the petals; scattered on lateral buds
    and spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels five-eighths inch
    long, thick, with few, short, scattering hairs, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes above
    medium in width, obtuse, slightly pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate, somewhat reflexed; petals broadly oval,
    entire, tapering below to short, broad claws; anthers
    yellowish; filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous,
    shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, period of ripening short; one and
    seven-eighths inches by one and five-eighths inches in size,
    oblong-oval, compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow,
    narrow, abrupt; suture shallow, broad; apex roundish; color
    dark purplish-red, overspread with very thick bloom; dots
    numerous, small, russet, clustered about the apex; stem
    three-quarters inch long, sparingly pubescent, adhering well to
    the fruit; skin thin, slightly sour, separating readily; flesh
    greenish-yellow, medium juicy, sweetish, mild; of fair quality;
    stone clinging, one inch by five-eighths inch in size, ovate
    with roughened and deeply pitted surfaces, blunt at the apex
    and base; ventral suture broad, distinctly furrowed; dorsal
    suture acute.


FOREST GARDEN

[Illustration: FOREST GARDEN]

_Prunus hortulana mineri_

    =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 81. 1882. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 42. 1883. =3.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 412. 1889. =4.=
    _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 55. 1890. =5.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =38=:37, 86. 1892. =6.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:53. 1895. =7.=
    _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 37. 1897. =8.= _Wis. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    136. 1899. =9.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 148. 1901. =10.= _Can. Exp.
    Farm Bul._ =43=:30. 1903. =11.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254,
    255. 1905. =12.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:17, 49 & 54 Pl. 1905.

Forest Garden is placed by most horticulturists in _Prunus americana_,
but the trees growing on the Geneva Station grounds belong to the Miner
group of _Prunus hortulana_ and the herbarium specimens of foliage and
flowers sent from other stations make it probable if not certain that
the trees here are true to name. This variety is little grown in the
East, but it is widely distributed in the central West where both in
tree and fruit-characters it seems adapted to the needs of the climate
and soil. It is one of the latest of its group, maturing at a good time
for shipping, for which it is further adapted by its tough skin and firm
flesh. While Forest Garden is not preeminently a dessert plum, it has a
spicy flavor that makes it pleasant eating and it is admirably adapted
for culinary purposes, especially for preserving.

This variety is from a wild plum found in the woods bordering on the
Cedar River, near Cedar Rapids, Iowa, by Thomas Hare, and introduced by
H. C. Raymond, of the Forest Garden Nurseries, Council Bluffs, Iowa,
about 1862. The American Pomological Society placed the variety on its
fruit catalog list in 1883, dropped it in 1891, and replaced it in 1897.

    Tree medium to large, often very vigorous, spreading, with
    sprawling habit, inclined to be flat-topped, perfectly
    hardy, variable in productiveness, bearing young, somewhat
    susceptible to shot-hole fungus; trunk small in proportion to
    the size of the tree, shaggy; branches rather rough, zigzag
    and inclined to split, thorny, dark ash-brown, with numerous,
    small lenticels; branchlets thick, long, willowy, with short
    internodes, greenish changing to dark chestnut-red, glossy,
    with thin pubescence when young, which disappears in autumn,
    with conspicuous, numerous raised lenticels; leaf-buds small,
    short, obtuse, plump, appressed.

    Leaves falling early, folded upward, elongated-oval, or
    obovate, peach-like, one and three-quarters inches wide,
    four and one-quarter inches long, thin and leathery; upper
    surface smooth, with a shallow, grooved midrib; lower
    surface silvery-green, pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base
    somewhat abrupt, margin doubly crenate, glandular; petiole
    three-quarters inch long, sparingly pubescent, faintly tinged
    with red, usually with two conspicuous, globose, brownish
    glands below the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing with the
    leaves; seven-eighths inch across, white, with a strong,
    disagreeable odor; borne in dense but scattering clusters
    on lateral buds and spurs, in threes or in fours; pedicels
    nine-sixteenths inch in length, slender, glabrous, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, narrowly campanulate or obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, slightly pubescent, margined with
    few hairs and with dark-colored glands, slightly reflexed;
    petals oval, erose, tapering to long claws of medium width;
    anthers yellowish; filaments seven-sixteenths inch in length;
    pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit variable in season which is usually late and short;
    about one and one-eighth inches in diameter, rather large,
    roundish-ovate or nearly oval, slightly compressed, halves
    equal; cavity shallow, wide, flaring; suture a line; apex
    roundish or somewhat pointed; color light or dark red, with
    thin bloom; dots numerous, russet, conspicuous; stem slender,
    five-eighths inch long, glabrous, detaching from the fruit at
    maturity; skin thick, tough, slightly astringent, adhering;
    flesh dark golden-yellow, juicy, coarse, fibrous, melting,
    sweetish next the skin but rather sour toward the center,
    with a strong and peculiar flavor, aromatic; fair to good;
    stone clinging, three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in
    size, oval, turgid, blunt and slightly flattened at the base,
    ending in an abrupt but sharp point at the apex, nearly smooth;
    ventral suture narrow, faintly ridged; dorsal suture acute.


FOREST ROSE

[Illustration: FOREST ROSE]

_Prunus hortulana mineri_

    =1.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 290. 1889. =2.= _Ia. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 55. 1890. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:55, 86. 1892.
    =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =123=:19. 1895. =5.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._
    =31=:346. 1895. =6.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:36. 1898. =7.=
    _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:154. 1899. =8.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 173.
    1901. =9.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 296. 1903.

Forest Rose, like Forest Garden, belongs to _Prunus hortulana mineri_,
the two being similar in many respects. Forest Rose, however, is not as
attractive in color as the other variety, the difference not being well
brought out in the color-plates, is smaller and does not keep nor ship
quite as well. The variety under discussion is better in quality than
Forest Garden and better adapted than the last named variety for the
home orchard at least. While somewhat variable in productiveness, in most
localities it bears annually and abundantly. The trees are rather more
thorny than most of its species.

This variety is said by H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa, to be a seedling
of Miner, grown by Scott & Company, a Missouri nursery firm, and
introduced by William Stark, Louisiana, Missouri, in 1878. Terry offers
no evidence to show that this plum is a seedling of Miner and there is a
question as to whether more is really known of its parentage other than
that it came from Missouri.

    Tree medium to large, intermediate in vigor, upright-spreading,
    open-topped, hardy, variable in productiveness somewhat
    susceptible to attacks of shot-hole fungus; trunk very rough
    and shaggy; branches rough, thorny, dark ash-gray, with
    numerous lenticels; branchlets numerous, slender, variable in
    length, with internodes of medium length, green changing to
    dull reddish-brown, glossy, glabrous, with numerous, small,
    raised lenticels; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, appressed.

    Leaves falling early, folded upward, elongated-oval or obovate,
    one and one-half inches wide, four inches long, thin; upper
    surface dull red in the fall, rugose, glabrous, with the
    midrib and larger veins deeply grooved; lower surface light
    green, somewhat pubescent along the midrib; apex acuminate,
    base acute, margin crenate or serrate, with small, dark
    glands; petiole slender, five-eighths inch in length, sparsely
    pubescent along one side, tinged with red, glandless or with
    from one to three small, globose or oval, greenish-brown glands
    on the stalk.

    Flowers seven-eighths inch across, white, with a disagreeable
    odor; borne in dense clusters on lateral buds and spurs, in
    pairs or in threes; pedicels five-eighths inch long, below
    medium in thickness, glabrous, greenish: calyx-tube green,
    narrowly campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes short and narrow,
    acute, serrate, somewhat reflexed, glabrous on the outer
    surface, but more or less pubescent on the inner surface and
    along the margin, which is strewn with red glands; petals oval,
    dentate, tapering below into narrow, lightly pubescent claws of
    medium length; anthers light yellow; filaments one-half inch in
    length; pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit late, season short; one and one-eighth inches by one inch
    in size, roundish-oval; cavity shallow, narrow, flaring; suture
    a line; apex roundish; color dull crimson overspread with thin
    bloom; dots very numerous, small, gray, conspicuous; stem
    slender, three-quarters inch long, smooth, not adhering to the
    fruit; skin thick, tough, astringent, inclined to crack under
    unfavorable conditions, adhering; flesh dull apricot-yellow,
    juicy, fibrous, tender and melting, sweet next to the skin but
    tart toward the center, aromatic; fair to good; stone clinging,
    five-eighths inch by one-half inch in size, oval, acute at the
    apex, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture somewhat blunt.


FOTHERINGHAM

_Prunus domestica_

1. Rea _Flora_ 208. 1676. 2. Langley _Pomona_ 91. 1729. 3. Miller _Gard.
Dict_. =3=:1754. 4. Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 19. 1803. 5. Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 299. 1845. Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 286, 383. 1846.
7. Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 517. 1859. 8. Hogg _Fruit Man._ 701. 1884. 9.
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 102. 1901.

Foderingham 1. Fotheringay 8. Foderingham Plum 2. _Grove House Purple_ 5,
7, 8. _Red Fotheringham_ 8. _Sheen_ 2, 5, 6, 7, 8.

Fotheringham is probably one of the oldest varieties of plums now
cultivated. Although but little if at all grown in this country, it has
maintained its place among standard English varieties for at least two
and a half centuries. The exact time of its origin is not certain, but
it was undoubtedly during the first half of the Seventeenth Century as
Hogg records a reference made to it by Rea in 1665. It was first grown
extensively at Sheen, in Surrey, England, about 1700 by Sir William
Temple, who gave it the name Sheen. The variety is described as follows:

    Tree hardy, vigorous, productive. Fruit matures just before
    Reine Claude; of medium size, obovate; suture distinct; stem
    one inch long; color reddish-purple with thin bloom; flesh
    greenish-yellow, sweet, sprightly; good; freestone.


FREEMAN

_Prunus domestica_

As this variety grows in the Station orchard it is a remarkably fine
plum. The fruits are attractive, of high quality and the tree-characters
are for most part very good. It is certainly a desirable plum for any
home plantation, and if it proves as productive elsewhere as about
Geneva, it may well be worth growing in commercial orchards.

Freeman is a chance seedling found in the yard of a Mr. Freeman of
Cortland, New York, about 1890 and shortly afterwards introduced by
E. Smith & Sons of Geneva, New York, but is as yet hardly known by
plum-growers.

    Tree intermediate in size and vigor, upright-spreading,
    productive; branchlets slender, pubescent; leaves oval, one
    and one-half inches wide, two and three-quarters inches long;
    margin serrate or almost crenate, eglandular or with small dark
    glands; petiole reddish, glandless or with from one to four
    globose glands; blooming season intermediate, short; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, creamy-white, usually in scattering
    clusters at the ends of lateral spurs; borne singly or in twos.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; about one and one-half
    inches in diameter, roundish or roundish-oval; cavity very
    shallow, small, often lipped; color golden-yellow, blushed
    and mottled with red on the exposed cheek, covered with thin
    bloom; flesh light golden-yellow, firm but tender, sweet,
    pleasant flavor; very good to best; stone dark colored,
    free, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    irregular-oval, somewhat flattened, abruptly contracted at the
    base, with surfaces roughened; ventral suture prominent.


FREESTONE

[Illustration: FREESTONE]

_Prunus insititia_

1. _Am. Gard._ =14=:148. 1893. 2. Waugh _Plum Cult._ 129. 1901.

Freestone Damson 2.

Freestone is a Damson separated from other Damsons chiefly in being
sweeter and more free of stone. It is so inferior to varieties of its
species in several particulars as to have little value for commercial
planting. The fruits are smaller and the pits larger in proportion to
the amount of flesh than with several better known Damsons and the trees
do not bear as large crops as plums of this species should; these faults
of fruit and tree condemn the plum. To offset the defects in the tree,
freedom from black-knot and immunity to leaf-blight may be mentioned as
compensating somewhat. Still Freestone is hardly to be mentioned as worth
planting in either home or commercial orchard. The origin of this Damson
is unknown. Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, who introduced the
variety about 1889, describe it as “a selected sort which is very hardy,
free from insects, and productive.”

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, vasiform,
    hardy, not always productive; branches dark ash-gray, thorny;
    leaves folded upward, oval, one and one-quarter inches wide,
    two and one-quarter inches long; upper surface dark green,
    rugose; lower surface silvery-green, pubescent; margin finely
    serrate, eglandular or with small, brownish glands; petiole
    five-eighths inch long, glandless or with one or two small
    glands; blooming season late and of medium length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, seven-eighths inch across, the buds
    creamy, changing to white when expanded; borne in clusters on
    lateral buds and spurs, usually in pairs; anthers reddish;
    filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil shorter than the
    stamens.

    Fruit late, season long; seven-eighths inch in diameter,
    roundish-oval; cavity very shallow and narrow; flesh
    yellowish-green, juicy, tender, sweet, mild; fair in quality;
    stone free, tinged red, five-eighths inch by one-half inch in
    size, oval, turgid, with roughened surfaces, acute at the base,
    blunt at the apex; ventral suture broad, blunt; dorsal suture
    with a broad, shallow groove.


FRENCH

[Illustration: FRENCH]

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 289. 1889. =2.= _Ibid._ 64. 1891.
    =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:184 fig. 40 I. 1897. =4.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:245. 1899. =5.= _Waugh Plum Cult._ 129. 1901.

    _French Damson_ 4. French Damson 1, 2, 3.

Far better than the Freestone just discussed is the French Damson, which
in some respects surpasses all other plums in its group. Thus it is the
largest of the Damsons, so large, indeed, as to lead many to believe
that it may be a hybrid with some Domestica plum, the size of the trees,
blossoms and foliage also leading to such a supposition. This excellent
Damson is largely grown for the market in western New York, good quality
as well as size and appearance aiding in selling the product. The fruits
have but one defect, the pit is large for the amount of flesh. Curiously
enough in some seasons the stone clings and in others is perfectly free.
It is in tree-characters that the French plum best shows its superiority
over other Damsons. The trees are large, the largest of the Damsons in
New York, hardy, bear abundantly and annually and carry their foliage so
well that fruit and wood usually ripen perfectly even when the trees are
not sprayed. The season is a little after that of the more commonly grown
Shropshire, which in most years is an advantage. French, while becoming
popular, is still too little known in New York, where its behavior
warrants quite general planting.

S. D. Willard, a nurseryman of Geneva, New York, probably introduced
French in this country; at least it was brought to notice mainly through
his recommendation. The origin is unknown, but it is probably an
introduction from France and may be an old variety renamed. The figure
of Prune Petit Damas Violet given by Poiteau is so very similar as to
suggest that French may be identical with that sort.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, dense-topped, hardy,
    productive; branches numerous, ash-gray, roughish, thorny,
    with lenticels variable in size; branchlets inclined to
    develop spurs at the base, rather slender, short, with short
    internodes, greenish-red changing to dark brownish-drab, dull,
    somewhat zigzag, thickly pubescent, with inconspicuous, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds intermediate in size and length, pointed,
    free.

    Leaves folded upward, long-oval, one and one-quarter inches
    wide, three inches long; upper surface dark green, covered
    with fine hairs, with a grooved midrib; lower surface
    pubescent; apex abruptly pointed, base abrupt, margin serrate
    or nearly crenate, with a few, small, dark glands; petiole
    eleven-sixteenths inch long, rather slender, pubescent, faintly
    tinged with red, usually having two very small, globose,
    greenish-brown glands on the stalk or base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and five-sixteenths inches
    across, white; borne on lateral spurs, usually in pairs;
    pedicels five-eighths inch long, slender, covered with short
    pubescence, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, glabrous on the outer surface,
    thinly pubescent along the margin and at the base of the inner
    surface, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals oval, dentate
    or fringed, tapering below to short, broad claws; anthers
    distinctly reddish; filaments seven-sixteenths inch in length;
    pistil glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit late; one and one-half inches by one and one-eighth
    inches in diameter, ovate, halves equal; cavity very shallow,
    narrow, flaring; suture a line; apex roundish; color dull
    black, overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous, small,
    brownish, inconspicuous; stem slender, three-quarters inch
    long, sparingly pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin
    thin, tough, separating readily; flesh greenish, juicy,
    fibrous, tender, sweet, pleasant and sprightly; good; stone
    variable in adhesion, seven-eighths inch by one-half inch in
    size, oval, roughened, acute at the base, blunt at the apex;
    ventral suture rather narrow, heavily furrowed and somewhat
    winged; dorsal suture with a shallow groove of medium width.


FROGMORE

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= _Flor. & Pom._ 265, Pl. 1876. =2.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    289. 1889. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:51. 1900.
    =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 130. 1901.

    Frogmore Damson 1, 2. Frogmore Prolific Damson 3.

Frogmore may be considered among the best of the Damsons in quality for
the culinary purposes to which this fruit is commonly put. The flesh is
tender, sweet and good, but adheres rather too tightly to the stone.
The tree of Frogmore is all that could be desired in productiveness and
quite equals most other Damsons in general and probably surpasses them
all, at least on the grounds at this Station, in length of time that the
fruit hangs on the tree. The habit of growth of this variety varies from
that of _Prunus insititia_ as commonly found, the leaves being larger,
the tops more spreading and the branches less thorny. The variety has
hardly been tried enough in New York to warrant either recommending or
condemning it. According to the _Florist and Pomologist_, published
in 1876, this variety originated a few years previous to the date of
publication in the Royal Gardens at Frogmore, England.

    Tree inferior in size and vigor, round-topped, open, hardy,
    very productive; branches thorny, the bark on the older
    branches splitting transversely to the direction of growth,
    making grooves or rings about three inches apart and two
    inches or more in length; branchlets slender, almost glabrous
    throughout the season, covered with light bloom; leaves bright
    red on first opening, somewhat folded backward, obovate, one
    and three-eighths inches wide, three and one-half inches long;
    upper surface dark green, rugose; lower surface silvery-green,
    pubescent, margin eglandular; petiole five-eighths inch
    long, slender, greenish, glandless or with one or two small,
    globose, yellowish-green glands usually at the base of the
    leaf; blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one inch across, white, in
    scattered clusters on lateral spurs; borne singly or in pairs;
    anthers yellow with tinge of red; filaments five-sixteenths
    inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit late, season of medium length; one and one-eighth inches
    by one inch in size, roundish-oval, compressed, purplish-black,
    overspread with thick bloom; flesh golden-yellow, juicy,
    tender, sweet; good; stone clinging, three-quarters inch by
    one-half inch in size, oval, smooth, somewhat acute at the base
    and apex; ventral suture blunt or with a short, narrow wing;
    dorsal suture with a narrow, shallow groove.


FROST GAGE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:52. 1832. =2.= _Mag. Hort._ =4=:45.
    1838. =3.= Hoffy _Orch. Comp._ =2=:1842, =4.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 300. 1845. =5.= _Horticulturist_ =3=:446. 1848. =6.=
    Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 219. 1849. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 54.
    1852. =8.= Hogg _Fruit Mun._ 362. 1866.

    _American Damson_ 8. _Frost Plum_ 4, 6, 8. _October Gage_ 3.

Frost Gage is too small for market purposes and moreover the fruit
withers rather quickly after picking; the quality is above the average.
The plum is not a Gage, only green fruits being entitled to this name.
At one time this was one of the most popular commercial varieties in
the Hudson Valley, but because of its susceptibility to black-knot it
has lost favor with growers. Downing in 1838 traced the history of this
variety to a tree standing on the farm of a Mr. Duboise, Dutchess County,
New York, Mr. Duboise stating that the original had been planted by his
father. It is doubtful if this is the first tree, however, for in 1849
Charles Hamilton of Canterbury, Orange County, reported trees of Frost
Gage thirty to forty years old on his place.

    Tree of medium size, upright, very productive; branchlets
    thick; leaves flattened, oval or obovate, one and one-half
    inches wide, two and three-quarters inches long; margin crenate
    or serrate, with few, small, black glands; petiole short,
    usually with one or two glands; blooming season intermediate,
    short; flowers appearing after the leaves, white, with a little
    yellowish tinge; borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in
    twos.

    Fruit late; about one and one-eighth inches in diameter,
    roundish, dark purplish-black, covered with thick bloom; stem
    slender, persistent; skin tough, sour; flesh greenish-yellow,
    juicy, firm, sweet, mild; fair to good; stone clinging, small,
    irregular-ovate, somewhat oblique.


FURST

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:45. 1873. =2.= Lange _Allgem. Garten._
    =2=:421. 1879. =3.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 413. 1881.
    =4.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ 8, Pl. 1882. =5.= _Guide Prat._ 159,
    363. 1895.

    _Eugen Fürsts Frühzwetsche_ 4, 5. Fürst’s Frühzwetsche 2, 3, 4.
    _Fürst’s Frühzwetsche_ 1, 4, 5. Quetsche Précoce de Fürst 1, 5.

Furst would undoubtedly be well worthy of very general cultivation in
plum orchards were it not for the fact that it is very similar to the
Italian Prune. The two fruits differ only in season, the Furst being a
few days earlier, and in the tendency of the variety under discussion
to shrivel about the neck. It may be that Furst will succeed in some
localities where the Italian Prune is not a success.

Furst was propagated by the Baron of Trauttenberg, Prague, Bohemia, who
had received it from Professor Pater Hackl, Leitmeritz, Bohemia, under
the name Furst, given in honor of Eugene Furst, son of the founder of
the School of Horticulture of Frauendorf, Bavaria. Furst Damson has
been confused with this variety, but it is a different plum. Its fruits
are distinctly necked and much inferior in quality, and its shoots
are glabrous, while in this variety they are not. The United States
Department of Agriculture introduced Furst in 1901 and through them this
Station received cions for testing.

    Tree of medium size, round-topped, productive; branchlets
    thick, marked with slight scarf-skin; leaf-scars very
    prominent; leaves folded upward, obovate, two and one-half
    inches wide, four and one-half inches long; margin doubly
    serrate or almost crenate, eglandular or with small dark
    glands; petiole thick, pubescent, glandless or with from one
    to three globose glands usually on the stalk; blooming season
    late; flowers one and one-eighth inches across, white, the
    opening buds tipped with yellow; borne on lateral buds and
    spurs, singly or in twos.

    Fruit late; one and seven-eighths inches by one and one-half
    inches in size, oval, slightly necked, purplish-black, covered
    with thick bloom; dots numerous, reddish, conspicuous; stem
    thick; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, very fibrous, firm,
    sweet, mild, with pleasant aroma; good to very good; stone one
    and one-eighths inches by five-eighths inch in size, free,
    irregular-oval, with rather long, tapering, oblique apex,
    the surfaces heavily pitted; ventral suture prominent, often
    winged; dorsal suture wide.


GEORGESON

[Illustration: GEORGESON]

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 52, 99. 1889. =2.= _Am. Gard._
    =12=:308, 501, 574. 1891. =3.= _Ibid._ =13=:700. 1892. =4.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:23, 27. 1894. =5.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
    =32=:488, 489. 1894. =6.= _Ga. Hart. Soc. Rpt._ 94. 1895. =7.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:51, 58. 1896. =8.= _Ibid._ =139=:40,
    44. 1897. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897. =10.= _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =175=:145. 1899. =11.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 136. 1901.
    =12.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 13. 1904. =13.= _Mass. Sta. An.
    Rpt._ =17=:160. 1905. =14.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:250, 254,
    255, 256, 257. 1905. =15.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:10, 30, 32, 35.
    1905.

    _Hattonkin No. 1._ 3, 4, 7. _Hattankin No. 1._ 5. _Hattonkin_
    7, 11. _Hattankio_ 7. Hattankio ?1. _Hattankio No. 1._ 6, 9,
    12, 15. Hattonkin No. 1. 2. _Mikado_ 10, 11, 12, 15. Normand 4,
    5, 7, 8, 14. Normand Yellow 2, 3. Normand Japan 3. _Normand’s
    Japan_ 4, 5. _Normand Yellow_ 4, 5, 7. _Normand_ ?15. _White
    Kelsey_ 10, 11, 15. _Yeddo_ 10, 11, 15.

Georgeson is not worth the trouble it has caused pomologists in
straightening out its nomenclature; and Professor Georgeson deserves to
have his name attached to a far better plum. The rich yellow color of the
fruit makes this a particularly handsome plum, but here praises end. The
flesh is so astringent and clings so tenaciously to the stone as to unfit
the variety for either dessert or culinary use. Moreover, the fruits are
exceedingly variable in color, size and shape, in the last character
ranging from flattish to round, with sometimes round and sometimes
pointed apex. The tree has too much of the sprawling habit of Burbank
to make it a good orchard plant. This plum, and those that have been
confused with it, can be spared without great loss to American pomology.

Georgeson was imported by H. H. Berger & Company, San Francisco,
California, and brought to notice chiefly by J. L. Normand, Marksville,
Louisiana, who named it for Professor C. C. Georgeson, then of Manhattan,
Kansas, a student of Japanese fruits. In the Georgia Horticultural
Society Report for 1889, L. A. Berckmans mentions two types of Hattankio,
one of which may be this variety. Normand, in 1891, said that he received
two varieties of Hattonkin from different sources and in order to
separate them he numbered the earlier, No. 1, the later No. 2. Bailey
and Kerr, however, in 1894, published Hattonkin No. 1 as a synonym of
Georgeson and Hattonkin No. 2, the later, as a synonym of the Kerr. The
Georgia Horticultural Society accepted this latter nomenclature in their
report published in 1895. The Mikado, White Kelsey and Yeddo as tested by
this Station have proved to be identical with Georgeson, but as tested
by Kerr,[212] the Mikado alone is the same. Normand, which is said to
have been imported and introduced in 1891 by J. L. Normand, is also
indistinguishable from this variety. In 1897, Georgeson was placed on the
American Pomological Society fruit catalog list.

    Tree medium in size and vigor, upright-spreading or
    broad-vasiform, not always hardy, productive; branches
    roughish, slightly thorny, often with bark cracked
    longitudinally, zigzag, dark ash-gray; branchlets glabrous,
    with characteristic raised lenticels; leaf-scars enlarged;
    leaves folded upward, broadly oblanceolate or obovate, one and
    three-eighths inches wide, three and three-quarters inches
    long, thin; margin crenate or serrate, with small, amber
    glands; petiole five-eighths inch long, reddish, with from
    one to ten brownish-red glands usually on the stalk; blooming
    season early to medium, of average length; flowers appearing
    before the leaves; borne in clusters on lateral spurs, in pairs
    or in threes; petals pinkish at the base; anthers reddish;
    pistil longer than the stamens.

    Fruit early, ripening period short; one and five-eighths inches
    in diameter, roundish-cordate; cavity deep, wide, usually
    with concentric, russet lines; color greenish-yellow changing
    to deep yellow as the fruit reaches full maturity, with thin
    bloom; flesh golden-yellow, fibrous, firm, sweetish except near
    the center; fair to good; stone clinging, five-eighths inch
    by one-half inch in size, oval, turgid, with pitted surfaces;
    ventral suture broad, slightly ribbed; dorsal suture acute.


GERMAN PRUNE

[Illustration: GERMAN PRUNE]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:53, 61. 1771. 2. Coxe _Cult. Fr.
    Trees_ 235, fig. 7. 1817. =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152.
    1831. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:77, 78. 1832. =5.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 310. 1845. =6.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch.
    Gard._ 286, 383. 1846. =7.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846.
    =8.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 335. 1849. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 214. 1856. =10.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 245. 1857. =11.=
    Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 519. 1859. =12.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 378.
    1866. =13.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 17. 1871. =14.= Mas _Pom.
    Gen._ =2=:171. 1873. =15.= Lange _Allgem. Garten._ =2=:418.
    1879. =16.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ =1=:1882. =17.= Mathieu _Nom.
    Pom._ 434. 1889. =18.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 355. 1891. =19.=
    _Guide Prat._ 155, 362. 1895. =20.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =131=:185, fig. 43. 1897. =21.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:29 fig.
    1897. =22.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 102. 1901. =23.= _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =162=: 254, 255. 1905.

    _Altesse ordinaire_ 13, 17, 19. _Backpflaume_ 17, 19.
    _Bauernpflaume_ 17, 19. _Common Quetsche_ 3, 5, 11, 17, 18,
    19. _Couetsche_ 4, 19. _Couetche_ 17. _Couetch_ 13, 19.
    _Couetsche Ordinaire_ 17, 19. _Covetche_ 5. _Covetsche_
    17. _Damas Gros_ 3, 5, 11, 17, 19. _Damask_ 3, 5, 11, 17,
    19. _Damas Long_ 1. _Damas Violet_ of some 3, 11, 17, 19.
    _Damas Violet Gros_ of some 3, 5, 11, 17, 19. _Deutsche Blaue
    Herbstzwetsche_ 17, 19. _Die Hauszwetsche_ 19. _D’Allemagne_
    19. Die Hauszwetsche 16. _Dutch Prune_ 10. _Early Russian_ 11,
    12, 13, 17, 19. _Enkelde Backspruim_ 17. _Enkelde Blackpruim_
    19. _Fellemberg_ 13, 17 incor., 19. _Gemeine Zwetsche_ 13, 14,
    17, 19. _Gemeine Hauszwetsche_ 14. German Plum 4, 14. _German
    Prune_ 3, 5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 19. _German Quetsche_ 12,
    13, 17, 19. _Grosse German Prune_ 3. _Grosse Hauspflaume_ 17,
    19. Hauszwetsche 15. _Hauszwetsche_ 13, 14, 16. _Hauspflaume_
    14, 17. _Imperatrice Violette Grosse_ of some 3, 5, 11, 17,
    19. _Imperatrice Violette_ of some 3, 5, 11, 13, 17, 19.
    _Koetsche_ 13, 17, 19. _Large German Prune_ 4, 17. _Leipzig_ 3,
    12, 13, 17, 19. _Leipzic_ 5. _Leipziger Zwetsche_ 16, 17, 19.
    Monsieur tardif? 19. _Monsieur Tardif_ 17. _Prune d’Allemagne
    la commune_ 4. _Prune d’Allemagne_ 3, 5, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17.
    _Prune d’Altesse_ 1. Prune Imperatrice Violette 7. Prune Plum?
    2. _Prune Allemand_ 4. _Prunier Allemand_ 4. _Prune Plum_ 4.
    Prune Quetsch 7. _Prunus Oeconomica_ 17. _Prune Zwetschen_ 14.
    _Quastche_ 7. _Quetsch_ 7, 13, 19. _Quetsche_ 4, 6, 8, 14,
    17, 19. Quetsche? 1, 3, 5, 6, 11, 12. _Quetsch Allemande_ 1.
    _Quetsch Hongroise_ 1. _Quetschen_ 4. _Quetsche Commune_ 4, 13,
    14, 16, 17. Quetsch Longue? 1. _Quetsche d’Allemagne Grosse_
    3, 5, 11, 17, 19. Quetsche Commune 19. _Quetsche d’Allemagne_
    3, 17, 19. Quetsche D’Allemagne 13. _Quetsche des Allemands_ 7.
    _Quetsche Grosse_ 3, 5, 17, 19. _Quetsche de Lorraine_ 13, 14,
    17, 19. _Quetsche de Metz_ 13, 16, 17, 19. Quetsche Domestique
    14. _Quetsche de Malogne_ 13, 17, 19. Quetzen 6, 17. _Sweet
    Prune_ 5, 11, 12, 13, 17, 19. _Teutsche blaue Zwetsche_ 16, 17,
    19. _Wahre Zwetsche_ 16. _Wetschen_ 13, 17, 19. _True Large
    German Prune_ 4, 5, 17, 19. _Turkish Quetsche_ 5, 11, 12, 13,
    17, 19. _Zwespe_ 17, 19. _Zwetsche_ 3, 5, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14,
    17, 19. _Zwetschen_ 4. _Zwetschke_ 3, 11, 17, 19.

Although one of the oldest plums under cultivation, probably the oldest
of the prune type, the German Prune is still as largely grown, the world
over, as any; and is seemingly more widely disseminated than any other
plum. It is a little difficult, in America at least, to see why this
fruit holds its popularity so long, for it is surpassed by other plums
in many horticultural characters, and when all of its characters, most
of which are very good, are combined there are still plums which it does
not excel. In most of the attributes which gratify the senses, color,
size, shape, taste and smell, it falls below expectations for a plum so
universally planted. Undoubtedly the wide distribution of this plum is
due somewhat to its many variations. The fruit comes almost true to seed
and is often propagated by planting pits, a practice which has given many
slightly different strains of this variety, each with somewhat different
adaptations.

In the Old World the number of strains of this plum, especially in
Germany, is legion, so many that it is probably impossible to segregate
them at this late date. In America, while there are a number of these
more or less distinct strains it is yet possible to distinguish the chief
ones. In New York, the most commonly grown German Prune is the Rochester
strain and since it agrees most closely with the fruit described in
the best works on pomology, it is the strain described and illustrated
in this work. The trees from which this description was made came from
Ellwanger and Barry, Rochester, New York, who have long maintained a
stock tree of this strain. Another German Prune, fruit of which we have
not been able to obtain, is the Dansville strain grown in the nurseries
of Dansville, New York. Still another of these plums is the Weedsport
German Prune[213] so like the Rochester type as to be hardly worth
distinguishing. The Latz German Prune is a very distinct strain; it is
larger, thicker and broader than the type here described and is more of a
clingstone. In some respects this is the best of the German Prunes. All
accounts agree that this plum was introduced into America from Prussia
by a Mr. Latz about 1850.

All of these German Prunes are characterized by large, hardy, vigorous,
healthy, productive trees, characters so marked that one can say at once
that it is the tree that gives the German Prune its great value. The
fruit is excellent for all culinary purposes, especially for canning, and
cures into a small but very good, tart, meaty, freestone, elastic prune.
The chief objection to the plum for these purposes is that the fruits run
small. The plums are too tart to have much value as dessert fruits. This
variety is likely to remain a standard for some time in New York but will
eventually be superseded by a larger fruit.

The origin of this plum is uncertain. German writers very generally
hold that it came from Asia whence it was carried during the Crusades
to Europe. Lauche, a German authority, says, “In the Sixteenth Century,
the first dried prunes were introduced into Italy, Switzerland and
Germany from Hungary. The tree on the contrary is said not to have been
introduced by us until the end of the Seventeenth Century.” A Prune Plum
was noted in America by Coxe in 1817, but it is impossible to say whether
he meant the German Prune. Prince, however, in 1832, described the
variety under its present name. In 1856, the American Pomological Society
placed the German Prune on the list of the varieties promising well and
six years later added it to its fruit catalog. The German Prune is used
only in the fresh state in New York, but on the Pacific Coast, in some
one of its several types, it is one of the half-dozen leading sorts for
curing.

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, round and dense-topped,
    hardy, usually very productive; branches ash-gray, somewhat
    rough, with lenticels variable in size; branchlets slender,
    short, with internodes of medium length, green changing to
    brownish-red, dull, glabrous, with numerous, small, obscure
    lenticels; leaf-buds intermediate in size and length, conical,
    free.

    Leaves falling early, oval or obovate, one and one-half inches
    wide, three inches long, thinnish, velvety; upper surface
    pubescent, slightly rugose, with a shallow groove on the
    midrib; lower surface yellowish-green, heavily pubescent; apex
    abruptly pointed or acute, base acute, margin finely serrate,
    with small glands; petiole one-half inch long, pubescent,
    tinged with red, glandless or with one or two small, globose
    glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, nearly one inch across,
    inconspicuous on account of their greenish-yellow color, which
    characterizes the variety; borne on lateral spurs, singly or
    in pairs; pedicels five-eighths inch long; below medium in
    thickness, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    lightly pubescent at the base; calyx-lobes long, narrow,
    acute, thinly pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate,
    erect; petals narrow, long-oval or obovate, erose, tapering
    to broad claws of medium length; anthers yellowish; filaments
    seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil very pubescent at the base,
    equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit late, ripening period very long; one and five-eighths
    inches by one inch in size, oval, slightly swollen on
    the ventral side, halves unequal; cavity very shallow,
    narrow, flaring; suture a faint line; apex pointed; color
    purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous,
    small, brown, inconspicuous, clustered about the base; stem
    below medium in thickness, five-eighths inch long, adhering
    well to the fruit; skin tough, separating readily; flesh
    yellowish-green, medium juicy, firm, sweetish, mild, pleasant
    flavor; good to very good; stone free, seven-eighths inch
    by one-half inch in size, the cavity larger than the pit,
    flattened, obliquely long-oval, pointed at the apex and
    base, with rough and pitted surfaces; ventral suture narrow,
    conspicuously winged; dorsal suture narrowly and shallowly
    grooved.


GIANT

[Illustration: GIANT]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. & For._ =7=:420. 1894. =2.= Burbank _Cat._ 5, fig.
    1895. =3.= _Cal. State Board Hort._ 47. 1897-98. =4.= _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =131=:185. 1897. =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:245.
    1899. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1899. =7.= _Am. Gard._
    =21=:36. 1900. =8.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =187=:77, 78. 1901.

    Giant Prune 4, 7, 8. _Giant Prune_ 5, 6.

Giant is distinguished for its large size and attractive color. The
accompanying color-plate shows the color and shape very well, but the
fruit is a little too small. Unfortunately Giant is somewhat inferior
in quality, a disappointment to all, as with Agen for a parent high
quality was to be expected. In quality, as in all fruit-characters, the
variety resembles the male parent, Pond. The flesh is coarse, fibrous,
lacking in juice, clings more or less to the stone and rots quickly under
unfavorable conditions. The trees, too, lack somewhat in both vigor and
productiveness. Introduced as a prune, it was supposed that this variety
would prove a great boon to prune-makers, but it does not cure well and
is now hardly used for drying. Giant is proving to be one of the very
best shipping plums, as would be expected because of its firm, dry flesh.
It is unfortunate that so attractive a plum cannot be unqualifiedly
recommended, but it is doubtful if it is worth planting on a commercial
scale in New York.

Giant was grown by Luther Burbank, Santa Rosa, California, from a seed of
Agen fertilized by Pond, the Hungarian Prune of the Pacific Coast. The
stock of this variety was offered for sale to nurserymen in 1893 and
1894, but not to fruit-growers until 1895, and then by the originator.
The American Pomological Society placed it on their fruit catalog list in
1899 as a promising variety for this region and southern California.

    Tree medium in size and vigor, round and dense-topped, hardy,
    usually productive; branches short, stocky, dark ash-gray, with
    large lenticels; branchlets short, with internodes of medium
    length, greenish-red changing to dark brownish-red, dull,
    thinly pubescent, heavily marked with scarf-skin and with few,
    small, inconspicuous lenticels; leaf-buds small to medium,
    short, conical, appressed.

    Leaves folded backward, obovate or oval, two and one-quarter
    inches wide, three and three-quarters inches long; upper
    surface pubescent only along the midrib; lower surface pale
    green, lightly pubescent on the midrib and larger veins; apex
    abruptly pointed or acute, margin serrate or crenate, usually
    with small, dark glands; petiole three-quarters inch long,
    tinged red along one side, sparingly pubescent, glandless or
    with from one to four greenish-brown glands usually on the
    stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and three-sixteenths inches
    across, creamy in the buds, changing to white on opening,
    borne in scattering clusters on short, lateral buds and spurs,
    singly or in pairs; pedicels three-eighths inch long, thick,
    glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous or
    lightly pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, pubescent on both
    surfaces, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals oval, somewhat
    erose, with short, broad claws; anthers yellowish; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, period of ripening short; two inches by
    one and one-half inches in size, obovate, slightly necked,
    compressed, halves unequal; cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt;
    suture shallow; apex roundish or depressed; color light to dark
    purplish-red, overspread with bloom of medium thickness; dots
    numerous, smallish, russet, inconspicuous; stem seven-eighths
    inch long, thinly pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin
    of medium thickness and toughness, adhering but slightly to the
    pulp; flesh light golden-yellow, variable in juiciness, coarse,
    somewhat fibrous, firm, rather sweet, mild fair in quality;
    stone semi-clinging or clinging, one and one-eighth inches by
    five-eighths inch in size, long-oval, flattened, with rough
    and pitted surfaces; ventral suture strongly furrowed; dorsal
    suture with a shallow groove.


GLASS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd App. 181. 1881. =2.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Cat._ 39. 1899. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:245. 1899.
    =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 104. 1901. =5.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._
    =43=:34. 1903. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 57. 1907.

    Glass Seedling 2. _Glass Seedling_ 4, 5, 6.

Although found in some collections in the United States, Glass has never
attained commercial importance in this country, probably because its
place is taken by the Quackenboss, which it very closely resembles. The
fruit is large and attractive in color and shape, but it is not high in
quality and it must be rated among Domestica plums as only a mediocre
fruit. The tree is said generally to give better satisfaction than the
fruit. This variety originated with Alexander Glass, Guelph, Ontario,
and has been cultivated extensively by Canadian growers to whom its
productivity and hardiness recommend it.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open, productive,
    hardy; branches rough, stocky; branchlets rather slender,
    pubescent; leaves folded backward, obovate or oval, one and
    three-quarters inches wide, three and one-half inches long;
    margin finely serrate; petiole reddish, pubescent, with from
    one to three smallish, globose glands usually at the base of
    the leaf.

    Fruit mid-season; one and one-half inches by one and
    three-eighths inches in size, oblong-oval, purplish-black,
    overspread with thick bloom; stem adhering firmly to the fruit;
    skin thin, tender, rather sour; flesh light yellow, juicy,
    firm, sweet, mild; of fair quality; stone clinging, one inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, irregular-oval, with oblique apex,
    the surfaces rough and pitted; ventral suture prominent, winged.


GOLDEN

[Illustration: GOLDEN]

_Prunus munsoniana × Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892. =2.= Burbank _Cat._ 17.
    1893. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 74. 1895. =4.= _Am. Gard._
    =18=:715. 1897. =5.= _Cal. State Board Hort._ 53. 1897-98. =6.=
    _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:12. 1898. =7.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:161.
    1899. =8.= _Am. Gard._ =21=:36. 1900. =9.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =14=:274. 1901. =10.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =30=:18 1905. =11.=
    _Mass. Sta. An. Rpt._ =17=:161. 1905. =12.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    =68=:8, 36. 1905. =13.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 500. 1905.

    Gold 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11. _Gold_ 6, 9, 13. _Late Klondike_ 5.

It would be hard to name another plum as showy as Golden. Large for its
group, beautifully turned, it presents a most striking appearance long
before it is ripe, with its bright yellow skin and crimson cheek, the
whole plum turning to a brilliant currant-red with a delicate bloom at
maturity. But the plum is little more than showy. The flavor is not
good, the flesh is fibrous, excessively juicy and adheres to the stone,
the skin is tough and astringent. In spite of the juiciness the plum
ships well, owing to the tough skin, but the fruits are much attacked by
brown-rot and the skin cracks badly under unfavorable conditions. The
trees are rather small, uncertain in bearing, often enormously productive
but do not hold the crop well, and the plums ripen unevenly. Strange to
say, considering the parentage, the variety is hardy, according to Waugh
standing the winters at Burlington, Vermont, almost perfectly. In tree
and fruit the variety is more like its American parent than the Asiatic
one. Golden can never be a money-maker in New York, but it is worth
having in a home orchard for its handsome appearance.

The original tree of this variety was grown in 1887 or 1888 by Luther
Burbank, Santa Rosa, California, from a seed of Robinson fertilized by
pollen of Abundance. In 1892, the variety was erroneously described
in the United States Department of Agriculture Report as a seedling
of Kelsey fertilized by Burbank. The same year it was named Golden
by Burbank and in 1893 it was offered for sale in his catalog, _New
Creations in Fruits and Flowers_. Soon after, the original tree and
the right of introduction were purchased by Stark Brothers Nurseries
and Orchards Company, Louisiana, Missouri, and in 1894 the variety was
catalogued and disseminated under the name Gold. This name was registered
as a trade-mark in the United States Patent Office in 1905, but as the
prior application and publication of Golden entitles it to precedence
according to the nomenclature of the American Pomological Society, the
name Gold has generally been dropped by pomologists. The confusion as to
the origin and nomenclature of this variety has been increased by its
parentage being published[214] as a cross of Robinson and Kelsey and by
the California shippers labeling it Late Klondike.

    Tree variable in size and vigor, usually small, somewhat
    vasiform, medium dense, hardy in all but the coldest
    localities, an uncertain bearer unless grown under favorable
    conditions, when it becomes very productive, susceptible
    to attacks of shot-hole fungus; trunk shaggy, sometimes
    gnarly; branches strong, unusually rough, grayish-brown,
    with longitudinal cracks in the bark, with very numerous,
    small, raised lenticels; branchlets willowy, numerous, long,
    with short internodes, green changing to dull reddish-brown,
    marked with gray scarf-skin, glossy, glabrous, with numerous,
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds small, short,
    conical, free.

    Leaves usually flattened, broadly lanceolate, peach-like, one
    inch wide by three and one-half inches long, thin, somewhat
    rigid; upper surface light green, smooth, glabrous, with deeply
    grooved midrib; lower surface pale green, thinly pubescent;
    apex taper-pointed, base acute, margin serrate or crenate,
    with numerous, small, dark red glands; petiole slender,
    three-eighths inch in length, tinged red, sparingly pubescent
    along one side, glandless or with from one to seven small,
    globose, yellowish-green glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season long; flowers appearing after the leaves,
    three-quarters inch across, white; borne in clusters on short
    lateral spurs and buds, in pairs or in threes; pedicels
    seven-sixteenths inch long, slender, glabrous, green;
    calyx-tube greenish, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    narrow, acute, sparingly glandular-serrate and pubescent, with
    scattering marginal hairs, erect; petals oval, entire, clawed;
    anthers yellowish; filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil
    glabrous, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period very long; medium to
    sometimes large, roundish-oblate, halves equal; cavity deep,
    flaring, regular; suture a line; apex roundish or pointed;
    color golden-yellow blushed or overspread with bright red, with
    thin bloom; dots numerous, very small, whitish, inconspicuous,
    thickly sprinkled around the apex; stem five-eighths inch long,
    glabrous, adhering fairly well to the fruit; skin rather tough,
    astringent, inclined to crack under unfavorable conditions,
    separating readily; flesh golden-yellow, unusually juicy and
    fibrous, tender and melting, sprightly, sweet next the skin
    but tart near the center; fair in quality; stone adhering,
    three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size, oval, turgid,
    flattened at the base, abruptly sharp-pointed at the apex, with
    pitted surfaces; ventral suture slightly winged; dorsal suture
    broadly grooved.


GOLDEN BEAUTY

[Illustration: GOLDEN BEAUTY]

_Prunus hortulana_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 162. 1881. =2.= _Rural N. Y._
    =43=:53. 1884. =3.= _Popular Gard._ =4=:38. 1888. =4.= _Am.
    Gard._ =10=:175. 1889. =5.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:48, 49,
    86. 1892. =6.= Kerr _Cat._ 3. 1894. =7.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =118=:53. 1895. =8.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =41=:55. 1896.
    =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897. =10.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:39, 42, 48. 1897. =11.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =11=:284.
    1898. =12.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:42. 1898. =13.= _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =113=:155. 1899. =14.= _Ibid._ =162=:247, 254, 255. 1905.

    Honey Drop 8, 10, 14. _Honey Drop_ 5, 11. Missouri Apricot 5,
    6, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13.

From the fruit-grower’s standpoint, Golden Beauty is of little interest.
The plums are so small and the quality so poor that the variety is not
worth planting either for the home or for money-making. It is true
that the firm, juicy fruits are very good for table use, in jellies
in particular, and that they may be shipped long distances, but these
characters cannot offset the handicap of small size and poor quality. The
variety is of interest to botanists because it seems to be a wanderer out
of the range of the species to which it belongs. As the history which
follows seems to show, Golden Beauty was found in a part of Texas where
_Prunus hortulana_ does not grow (see the discussion of this species) and
quite as remarkable if it really comes from so warm a part of Texas is
the fact that it should be perfectly hardy here and even farther north.
There is a mystery yet to be cleared up about this plum. The variety is
very ornamental in flower, foliage and fruit.

According to current account, Golden Beauty was found wild by a German
on the Colorado River in western Texas during the Civil War. After the
war, the German planted his new plum in a yard in Victoria County, Texas,
where it attracted the attention of Gilbert Onderdonk, Mission Valley,
southern Texas. Onderdonk, noting its merits, propagated and introduced
it in 1874. In 1886, Stark Brothers, of Missouri, introduced the Missouri
Apricot, the Honey Drop of some, which they claimed was found wild in
Missouri. Several pomologists have noted the close similarity of this
variety to Golden Beauty and as tested at this Station they are identical
in all respects and are therefore placed under the older name. In 1897
the American Pomological Society placed this plum on its fruit catalog
list.

    Tree above medium in size, vigorous, somewhat irregular in
    habit, usually spreading, low, dense and flat-topped, hardy,
    variable in productiveness, somewhat subject to attacks of
    shot-hole fungus; trunk rough, shaggy; branches roughish,
    thorny, zigzag, dark ash-gray, with numerous lenticels of
    medium size; branchlets long, slender, twiggy, with short
    internodes, green changing to greenish-brown, shining,
    glabrous, with numerous, conspicuous, large, raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds small, very short, obtuse, plump, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, narrowly oval, one and seven-eighths
    inches wide, four inches long, thin; upper surface smooth,
    glabrous, with a grooved midrib; lower surface light green,
    sparingly pubescent along the midrib and larger veins; apex
    acuminate, base abrupt, margin irregularly and doubly crenate,
    with small, dark brown glands; petiole seven-eighths inch long,
    slender, green, thinly pubescent along one side, glandless or
    with from one to eight very small, globose, blackish glands
    scattered mostly below the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season late and of medium length; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, seven-eighths inch across, white; borne
    in clusters on lateral buds and spurs, with from four to
    six flowers in each umbel; pedicels nine-sixteenths inch
    in length, slender, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes acute, erect, thinly pubescent
    within, glandular-serrate, the glands reddish; petals
    ovate or roundish-oval, erose, tapering below into long,
    narrow, pubescent claws; anthers light yellow; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch in length; pistil glabrous, shorter than
    the stamens.

    Fruit very late, season of medium length; one inch in diameter,
    roundish to roundish-oval, somewhat compressed, halves equal;
    cavity shallow, narrow, slightly flaring; suture very shallow
    or a line; apex roundish or pointed; color orange-yellow,
    mottled, overspread with thin bloom; dots characteristic,
    numerous, large and small, yellowish, decidedly conspicuous
    producing a somewhat mottled appearance, clustered about the
    apex; stem very slender, five-eighths inch in length, glabrous,
    adhering poorly to the fruit; skin thick, tough, adhering to
    the pulp; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, coarse, fibrous, tender,
    mildly sweet, with a faint apricot flavor, somewhat acid when
    cooked; fair in quality; stone adhering, five-eighths inch by
    one-half inch in size, turgid, oval, abruptly pointed at the
    base and apex, smooth and with a coating of yellowish-brown,
    cottony substance; ventral suture broad, lightly furrowed;
    dorsal suture acute or with a shallow furrow.


GOLDEN CHERRY

_Prunus cerasifera_

    =1.= Hoffy _Orch. Com._ =2=:1842. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    295. 1845. =3.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =15=:293. 1896. =4.= Bailey
    _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 212. 1898. =5.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 401.
    1898.

    Golden Cherry Plum 2. Market Plum 1. Youngken Golden 3.
    _Youngken’s Golden Cherry_ 4. Yunkin Golden 5.

This plum is one of the few cultivated representatives of _Prunus
cerasifera_. It offers some attractions because of real merit and because
it adds variety to the list of plums for fruit-growers. Some of its
qualities are strongly marked and the variety might prove of value in
plant-breeding. Golden Cherry originated with Samuel Reeves, Salem, New
Jersey, as a seedling of Myrobalan, in the early part of the last century.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, dense-topped, unproductive;
    branches slender, sparingly thorny; branchlets twiggy; leaves
    oval, one inch wide, one and seven-eighths inches long; margin
    finely serrate, with few small glands; petiole reddish,
    eglandular; blooming season early, of medium length; flowers
    appearing before the leaves, well distributed on lateral buds
    and spurs.

    Fruit very early; one and one-quarter inches in diameter,
    greenish-yellow changing to pale yellow with a tinge of red,
    overspread with thin bloom; flesh pale yellow, very juicy,
    melting, sweet next to the skin but rather tart at the pit,
    aromatic; good; stone clinging, five-eighths inch by one-half
    inch in size, oval, with a nearly smooth surface.


GOLDEN DROP

[Illustration: GOLDEN DROP]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Pom. Mag._ =2=:57, Pl. 1829. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._
    144. 1831. =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 256. 1832. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 273. 1845. =5.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch.
    Gard._ 295, 383. 1846. =6.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 332, fig.
    258. 1849. =7.= _Mag. Hort._ =15=:486, 487 fig. 42. 1849. =8.=
    Hovey _Fr. Am._ =1=:81. 1851. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 54.
    1852. =10.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 410. 1854. =11.= _Ann. Pom.
    Belge_ 43, Pl. 1855. =12.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 515. 1859.
    =13.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:29, fig. 15. 1866-73. =14.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 691, 729. 1884. =15.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 425.
    1889. =16.= _Guide Prat._ 155, 357. 1895. =17.= _Oregon Sta.
    Bul._ =45=:26 fig. 1897. =18.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:34. 1898.
    =19.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 211. 1899. =20.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =113=:158, Pl. XV. 1899. =21.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242,
    244. 1899. =22.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 104 fig. 1901. =23.= _Va.
    Sta. Bul._ =134=:42. 1902. =24.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:242,
    254, 255. 1905.

    _Bury Seedling_ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16.
    Coe 16, 21. _Coe’s_ 1, 2, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16. _Coe Golden Drop_
    16, 23. Coe Golden Drop 21. Coe’s Golden Drop Plum 1, 5, 11.
    _Coe’s Golden Drop_ 5, 8, 13, 15, 16, 17, 22, 24. Coe’s Golden
    Drop 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 18, 20. _Coe’s Golden
    Drop Plum_ 13. _Coe’s Plum_ 12, 13, 16. _Coe_ (_Pride_) 15.
    _Coe’s Imperial_ 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16.
    _Coe’s Rothgefleckte Pflaume_ 13, 16. Coe’s Rotgefleckte
    Pflaume 15. Coe’s Plum 5. _Cooper’s Large_ 15, 16 incor. _Coe’s
    Seedling_ 3. _De Coe_ 16. _Fair’s Golden_ 15, 16. _Fair’s
    Golden Drop_ 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16. _Golden Drop_
    1, 2, 7, 8, 12, 14, 15, 16. _Golden Drop Plum_ 16. _Golden
    Gage_ 2, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16. _Goutte d’Or_ 13.
    Goutte d’Or 13, 16. _Goutte d’Or de Coe_ 15, 16. _King of
    Plums_ 8. _New Golden Drop_ 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 15
    16. _Nouvelle Goutte d’Or_ 15, 16. _Parmentier?_ 15, 16. _Prune
    Goutte d’Or De Coé_ 11. _Semis de Bury_ 15, 16. Silver Prune
    17, 19. _Silver Prune_ 22. The Coe’s Plum 1. Waterloo of some
    7, 8,? 14, 15.

Unfortunately this fine old plum, the largest, handsomest and best of the
yellow plums, is fit only for the amateur in New York and in the hands
even of the most careful of amateurs it does not reach the perfection
in either appearance or quality that is expected of it in Europe or on
the Pacific Coast of America. In spite of special efforts to obtain
specimens for illustration which would do this variety justice, the
color-plate of Golden Drop is far from satisfactory as regards either
size or color of the fruit. In this region trees of Golden Drop lack
constitution and while hardy in tree, the fruit-buds are often caught by
the cold. From lack of vigor and from injury by freezing, the variety is
not productive. The trees, too, are slow in growth and the fruit needs a
long season to reach perfect maturity, often failing to ripen in parts
of New York where other plums mature well. Again, the trees are subject
to nearly all the ills to which plums are heir and have a somewhat
precarious existence because of insects and diseases though the fruit
is not as subject to brown-rot as is that of the Yellow Egg with which
this variety is usually compared. Golden Drop is seemingly fit for all
purposes to which plums are put—for dessert, cooking, canning, preserving
and prune-making. For the last named purpose it is unsurpassed for a
light colored prune of large size, readily selling at a fancy price in
delicatessen stores. The fruit when carefully picked and handled keeps
for a month or more, shrivelling somewhat but retaining its flavor and
pleasing flesh-characters. A task for the plant-breeder is to breed a
plum, of which one of the parents should be Golden Drop, which will give
to this region a plum as good as the Golden Drop in regions where it is
at its best. With all of its defects in the North and East, it is yet
worth growing for the home and often for the late market.

Jervaise Coe, a market gardener, at Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk, England,
raised Golden Drop from a seed about 1809. Lindley (References, 5) says,
“He [the originator] informed me it was from the stone of Green Gage, the
blossom of which, he supposed, had been fertilized by the White Magnum
Bonum, the two trees of which grew nearly in contact with each other in
his garden.” From a study of the fruit-characters this supposition is
very probable. C. M. Hovey in discussing the synonyms of this variety
writes, “The French have disseminated it considerably under the name of
Waterloo; trees received under that name have fruited in our collection
this year, and proved to be the Golden Drop.” Robert Hogg, in his
_Fruit Manual_, published in 1884, described Waterloo as a separate
variety, found at Waterloo, Belgium, and introduced by Dr. Van Mons; the
descriptions of the two are practically identical. The Silver Prune, well
known on the Pacific Coast, at one time supposed to be a new variety,
turned out upon investigation to be Golden Drop, though the growers there
continue to call it by the new name they have given it. The variety under
discussion came to America in 1823, when Knight, of England, sent a tree
of it to John Lowell of Massachusetts. In 1852, the American Pomological
Society valued it sufficiently to place it on the list of the fruits
worthy of general cultivation.

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, spreading or roundish,
    open-topped, hardy, productive; branches ash-gray, roughish,
    with few, large lenticels; branchlets short, stout, with
    internodes variable in length, greenish-red changing to dull
    brownish-red becoming drab on the older wood, glabrous early in
    the season but becoming pubescent at maturity, with numerous,
    small lenticels; leaf-buds large, long, pointed, free.

    Leaves folded upward, oval or obovate, one and three-eighths
    inches wide, two and three-quarters inches long, thickish;
    upper surface dark green, slightly rugose, pubescent, with
    the midrib but faintly grooved; lower surface silvery-green,
    pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or acute, base acute, margin
    serrate, eglandular or with small, dark glands; petiole
    one-half inch long, pubescent, tinged red, with from two to
    three globose, greenish-yellow glands usually at the base of
    the leaf.

    Season of bloom medium, short; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one inch across, white, borne in clusters on lateral
    spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels five-eighths inch long,
    lightly pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, narrowly
    campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes obtuse, sparingly pubescent
    on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals oval,
    dentate, tapering to short, broad claws; anthers yellowish;
    filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to
    the stamens in length.

    Fruit very late, season of average length; two inches by one
    and one-half inches in size, oval, tapering at the base to a
    short neck, slightly compressed, halves equal; cavity very
    shallow and narrow, abrupt; suture shallow and wide; apex
    depressed; color golden-yellow, occasionally with a faint
    bronze blush, showing greenish streaks and splashes before full
    maturity, overspread with thin bloom; dots numerous, small,
    russet, conspicuous; stem three-quarters inch long, thinly
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin tough, rather
    adherent; flesh light golden-yellow, juicy, intermediate in
    firmness and tenderness, rather sweet, mild, pleasant flavor;
    good to very good; stone free, one and three-eighths inches by
    three-quarters inch in size, oval or ovate, slightly flattened,
    irregularly ridged and roughened, acute at the base and apex;
    ventral suture wide, often conspicuously winged; dorsal suture
    widely and deeply grooved.


GOLIATH

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 26. 1828. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc.
    Cat._ 147, 153. 1831. =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 260. 1832. =4.=
    _Mag. Hort._ =9=:164. 1843. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 300.
    1845. =6.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 287, 383. 1846.
    =7.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 343. 1849. =8.= McIntosh _Bk.
    Gard._ =2=:531. 1855. =9.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 245. 1857.
    =10.= _Cultivator_ =8=:25 fig. 1860. =11.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    86. 1862. =12.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 363. 1866. =13.= Mas _Pom.
    Gen._ =2=:15, fig. 8. 1873. =14.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432.
    1889. =15.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 105 fig. 1901.

    _Caledonian_ 1, 2, of some 5 & 8, 11, 12, 13, 14. Emperor
    9. Goliath 1, 3. _Goliath_ 9, 13. _Nectarine_ 1, of some 2
    & 8, 11 & 14 incor. _Pfirschenpflaume_ 14. Prune-Pêche? 14.
    _Saint Cloud_ 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13, 14. Steer’s Emperor 2.
    _Steers’ Emperor_ 4, 5, 8, 12, 13, 14. _Wahre Caledonian_ 13,
    14. _Wilmot’s Late Orleans_ 2, 5, 8, 12, 13, 14.

This old English plum has never been popular in America and is now
scarcely known on this continent. It is a large, handsome, purple plum,
as the illustration well shows, but seldom fit for dessert. “Seldom fit”
because it is quite variable in quality in some seasons and under some
conditions. It is an excellent culinary plum and its firm, thick, meaty
flesh fits it well for shipping. On the grounds of this Station the
trees behave very well in all respects and usually bear very full crops
of plums that would tempt purchasers in any market. It has all of the
characters usually ascribed to a money-maker variety of any fruit and why
not more grown in commercial orchards cannot be said.

Nothing is known of the origin of this plum except that it is English.
William Prince, in 1828, wrote: “This plum is of very large size, and has
attracted much notice in England; but it is only recently introduced to
this country, where it has not yet produced fruit that I am aware of.”
The Nectarine plum was confused with the Goliath in the early part of the
Nineteenth Century, but Robert Thompson,[215] the English horticulturist,
separated them so satisfactorily that they have ever since remained
distinct in plum literature. He found that this variety had pubescent
shoots and fruit-stalks, while the same parts of the Nectarine were
glabrous, and that the season of Goliath is considerably later. The
American Pomological Society placed Goliath on its fruit list in 1862,
but dropped it in 1871.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, dense, hardy, very
    productive; branches stocky, with fruit-spurs numerous,
    ash-gray, smooth except for the large, raised lenticels;
    branchlets somewhat thick, short, with internodes of medium
    length, green changing to dull brownish-drab, heavily pubescent
    throughout the season, with few, inconspicuous, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds of average size and length, conical, free.

    Leaves somewhat flattened, obovate, two inches wide, three and
    five-eighths inches long; upper surface dark green, nearly
    glabrous, with a grooved midrib; lower surface heavily
    pubescent; apex obtuse or acute, base acute, margin finely
    serrate, eglandular or with few, small dark glands; petiole
    one-half inch long, thick, heavily pubescent, with a faint red
    tinge, glandless or with from one to three large, globose,
    greenish-yellow glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season early to medium, short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one inch across, white; borne on lateral
    spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels nine-sixteenths inch long,
    pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, lightly
    pubescent; calyx-lobes, broad, obtuse, somewhat pubescent,
    glandular-serrate, erect; petals unusually large, roundish,
    finely crenate, not clawed; anthers yellowish; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the
    stamens, with a large style and stigma.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and five-eighths
    inches by one and one-half inches in size, roundish-oblong,
    somewhat oblique, truncate, compressed, halves unequal; cavity
    narrow, abrupt, usually russeted; suture a line; apex flattened
    or depressed; color dark purplish-red, lighter colored on the
    shaded side, overspread with thick bloom; dots characteristic,
    numerous, large, russet, conspicuous, clustered about the
    apex; stem thick, three-quarters inch long, thickly pubescent,
    adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, sour, separating
    readily; flesh golden-yellow, rather dry, firm, sweet, of
    mild, pleasant flavor; fair to good; stone free, seven-eighths
    inch by three-quarters inch in size, roundish-oval, somewhat
    flattened, blunt at the base and apex, roughened and
    irregularly furrowed; ventral suture wide, winged, heavily
    furrowed; dorsal suture with a wide groove variable in depth.


GONZALES

[Illustration: GOLIATH]

_Prunus triflora_ ×

    =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1899-1900. =2.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:13. 1898.
    =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:252. 1905. =4.= _Penin. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 36. 1905. =5.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 1906.

    _Gonzales_ 5. _Red Gold_ 4. Red Gold 5.

Judging from the several published descriptions, Gonzales is a very
promising plum, for the South at least. The writers have not seen the
variety in the North, but there appear to be no reasons why it should
not succeed in some northern soils and climates. It is a chance seedling
found in Gonzales, Texas, about 1894, and was introduced by F. T. Ramsey,
Austin, Texas, in 1897. About all that can be determined regarding its
parentage is that it is the product of some Japanese variety pollinated
by a native. In 1901, Waugh used this variety to typify a new species,
_Prunus hortulana robusta_, composed of a number of hybrids between
_Prunus triflora_ and native species. The following description is
compiled:

    Tree vigorous, upright-spreading, open; leaves narrow, oval,
    tapering at both ends; upper surface glabrous; margin minutely
    glandular, finely crenulate; petiole short and slender, with
    two glands.

    Fruit mid-season; resembles Burbank in size and shape; skin
    toughish; color bright red, sometimes striped and splashed with
    dark red; flesh yellow, tinged red, firm, sweet; good; stone of
    medium size, oval, clinging.


GRAND DUKE

[Illustration: GRAND DUKE]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 703. 1884. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432,
    434. 1889. =3.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =39=:100. 1894.
    =4.= _Can. Hort._ =18=:117, Pl. 1895. =5.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =131=:186, fig. 40 IV. 1896. =6.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    =42=:83. 1897. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 25. 1897. =8.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:245. 1899. =9.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:159,
    Pl. XVI. 1899. =10.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:52.
    1900. =11.= _Waugh Plum Cult._ 106 fig. 1901. _12._ _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =162=:243 fig., 244, 254, 255. 1905.

    Grossherzog’s Pflaume 2. _Grand-Duc_ 2. _Grand Duke_ 2.

Grand Duke, now probably the favorite late shipping plum in this region,
is, as stated in the history given below, a comparatively new plum
in America. Its great popularity, gained in less than a quarter of a
century, is due to much advertising by nurserymen coupled with such
intrinsic qualities as large size, the true prune shape which seems most
pleasing in some markets, handsome plum-purple and more than all else a
firm, meaty flesh which fits the variety excellently for shipping. The
flavor, as seems most often to be the case with these large blue plums,
is not pleasant and the plum is not more than a second rate dessert fruit
though it is very good in whatever way cooked for the table. The trees
grow poorly in the nursery and even in the orchard are seldom large
and vigorous enough to be called first class, though usually hardy.
Some years ago plum-growers were advised to top-work this and other
weak-growing plums on stronger stocks, but those who have tried such
top-working usually condemn it because it is expensive and ineffective
and because it so often gives a malformed tree. The trees come in bearing
slowly but bear regularly and abundantly and hold the crop well, the
plums being unusually free from rot and hanging in good condition a long
time. Grand Duke deserves its popularity as a market plum and probably no
better variety can be selected in New York for the last of the season.

Grand Duke is another of the many valuable plums produced by Thomas
Rivers, of Sawbridgeworth, England. It was grown from an Autumn Compote
stone and was sent out in 1876. When it was first introduced into America
is not known, but in 1888 cions of it were distributed by Ellwanger and
Barry[216] of Rochester, New York. In 1897, the American Pomological
Society added this variety to its fruit catalog list and recommended it
for this State and neighboring regions with similar climatic conditions.

    Tree above medium in size, moderately vigorous, upright to
    slightly spreading, usually hardy, productive; branches
    ash-gray, with small, numerous lenticels; branchlets slender,
    short, with internodes of medium length, greenish-red changing
    to brownish-red, many twigs retaining a tinge of green,
    shining, glabrous, with numerous, small lenticels; leaf-buds
    large, long, pointed, strongly appressed; leaf-scars large.

    Leaves nearly flat, obovate, one and one-half inches wide,
    three inches long, thick; upper surface shining, slightly
    rugose, pubescent only along the grooved midrib; lower surface
    yellowish-green, lightly pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base
    acute, margin serrate, eglandular or with small, dark glands;
    petiole three-quarters inch long, nearly glabrous, slightly
    tinged red along one side, glandless or with from one to three
    globose yellowish glands on the stalk and base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate, short; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one inch across, white; borne in clusters on
    short lateral spurs and buds, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    one-half inch long, slender, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube
    green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes lightly pubescent,
    glandular-ciliate, slightly reflexed; petals obovate, entire,
    short-clawed; anthers yellowish; filaments one-quarter inch
    long; pistil pubescent at the base, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit late, season medium; unusually large when well grown, two
    and one-eighth inches by two inches in size, elongated-oval
    or slightly obovate, halves unequal; cavity shallow, narrow,
    abrupt; suture wide, variable in depth; apex flattened,
    somewhat depressed or occasionally with a short, blunt tip;
    color dark reddish-purple or purplish-black, overspread with
    thick bloom; dots numerous, small, brownish, inconspicuous;
    stem three-quarters inch long, adhering well to the fruit; skin
    variable in toughness, somewhat astringent, separating readily;
    flesh golden-yellow, juicy, firm, sweet, mild, not high in
    flavor; good; stone clinging, sometimes tinged red, one and
    one-eighth inches by seven-eighths inch in size, irregularly
    oval, slightly flattened, roughish, acute at the base and apex;
    ventral suture broad, slightly winged; dorsal suture with a
    broad, shallow groove.


GUEII

[Illustration: GUEII]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd App. 181. 1881. =2.= _Can.
    Hort._ =14=:293, Pl. 1891. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =103=:34,
    fig. 6. 1894. =4.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:187. 1897. =5.=
    _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 120. 1898. =6.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =169=:242, 245. 1899. =7.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:159. 1899.
    =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1899. =9.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    107. 1901. =10.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =134=:42, 43 fig. 14. 1902.

    _Big Blue_ 1. _Blue Magnum Bonum_ 1, 9. _Bradshaw_ 1 incor.
    Geuii 3. _Gueii_ 1. Guii 1, 6. _Gweii_ 1.

Gueii is one of the standard plums of its season in New York, ranking
among the first half-dozen in number of trees growing in the State, with
many growers holding that it is the best general purpose plum of all
Domesticas. The popularity of Gueii is due to its being a money-maker, as
few would care to grow it for home consumption. The quality of Gueii is
poor, especially for dessert, and it cannot even be called a particularly
good-looking plum, though the illustration scarcely does the plum
justice, especially in size. But the variety bears early and abundantly;
the trees are large, vigorous, healthy and hardy and the plums are hardly
surpassed for shipping, especially at the time at which the crop comes
upon the market, about mid-season, the best shipping plums maturing a
little later. The fruit is quite subject to brown-rot, a matter of more
moment in other regions than in New York, and yet in some seasons very
important in this State. The stone, curiously enough, sometimes clings
rather tightly and under other conditions is wholly free. It could be
wished that so popular a market plum were better in quality, but since
high quality is seldom correlated in plums with fitness to ship well, it
would be unfair to condemn Gueii for a market fruit because it cannot be
eaten with relish out of hand.

This plum, according to all accounts, originated with a Mr. Hagaman,
Lansingburgh, New York, about 1830. It was brought to notice by John
Goeway (Gueii) and was soon called by his name. For years it was not much
grown and it was not until 1899 that it was placed on the fruit catalog
list of the American Pomological Society.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, hardy, very
    productive; branches ash-gray, roughened by longitudinal
    cracks and by numerous, conspicuous, raised lenticels of
    various sizes; branchlets thick, of medium length, with short
    internodes, green changing to dark brownish-drab, dull, thickly
    pubescent throughout the season, with numerous, inconspicuous,
    small lenticels; leaf-buds short, conical, free.

    Leaves obovate or oval, one and seven-eighths inches wide,
    four inches long, thick; upper surface dark green, with
    scattering fine hairs and with a grooved midrib; lower surface
    silvery-green, thickly pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or
    acute, base variable but usually acute, margin doubly crenate,
    with small black glands; petiole five-eighths inch long, thick,
    pubescent, tinged red.

    Blooming season short; flowers appearing after the leaves, one
    and one-eighth inches across, whitish; borne in clusters at the
    ends of spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels thirteen-sixteenths
    inch long, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    pubescent towards the base; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse,
    pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals
    roundish, entire, with very short, blunt claws; anthers yellow;
    filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to
    the stamens in length.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season;
    medium to above in size, somewhat ovate, halves equal; cavity
    below medium in depth and width, abrupt, rarely sutured; apex
    bluntly pointed; color dark purplish-black, overspread with
    thick bloom; dots numerous, small, russet, inconspicuous,
    clustered about the apex; stem medium in thickness and length,
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, tender,
    slightly astringent, separating readily; flesh greenish-yellow
    changing to light golden-yellow, dry, firm but tender, sweet,
    mild, somewhat astringent towards the center; fair in quality;
    stone variable in adhesion but usually clinging, large, ovate
    or oval, blunt at the base and apex, strongly roughened and
    pitted; ventral suture faintly winged; dorsal suture acute or
    lightly grooved.


GUTHRIE LATE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ =2=:532. 1855. =2.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 919. 1869. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 705. 1884. =4.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434. 1889. =5.= Rivers _Cat._ 1898. =6.=
    _Am. Gard. Mag._ =21=:173. 1900.

    Guthrie’s Minette 1. _Guthrie’s Late Green_ 6. Guthrie Green 6.
    Guthrie’s Late Green 2, 3, 4. _Minette_ 2, 3, 4. _Verte Tardive
    de Guthrie_ 4.

Guthrie Late has never attained commercial importance in the United
States, being found only in collections; but in England, according to
Hogg, it is a very fine dessert plum, rivalling the Reine Claude in
quality and ripening a month later. On the grounds of this institution it
has failed because the fruits are small, dull in color and do not keep
well. Of the several varieties produced from seed of Reine Claude by
Charles Guthrie, Taybank, Dundee, Scotland, about the middle of the last
century, Guthrie Late is the best known.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, dense, productive; branches
    stocky; branchlets pubescent; leaf-buds large, short, with a
    peculiar brush-like apex; leaves folded upward, oval, one and
    seven-eighths inches wide, three and one-half inches long,
    thick, rugose; margin crenate, eglandular or with small, dark
    glands; petiole thick, glandless or with from one to four
    globose glands; blooming season short; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one inch across, white tinged with yellow at the
    apex of the petals; borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or
    in pairs.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; of medium size,
    roundish-truncate, dull greenish-yellow, often irregularly
    splashed and striped with green, overspread with thin bloom;
    skin thin, slightly astringent; flesh light golden-yellow,
    rather dry, fibrous, somewhat tender, sweet, pleasant in
    flavor; of good quality; stone free, seven-eighths inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, ovate or oval, medium turgid, with
    rough surfaces.


HALE

[Illustration: HALE]

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 19. 1893. =2.= _Ibid._ 1894. =3.= _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =106=:52. 1896. =4.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ XI. 1897.
    =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 41. 1899. =6.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =175=:147, 148, fig. 37. 1899. =7.= _Am. Gard._ =21=:36 1900.
    =8.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 136. 1901. =9.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =187=:77, 79. 1901. =10.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 89. 1902.
    =11.= _Ohio. Sta. Bul._ =162=:254, 255. 1905. =12.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =68=:10, 30. 1905. =13.= _Mass. Sta. An. Rpt._ =17=:160.
    1905.

    J 1. _J_ 3. Prolific 2. _Prolific_ 3, 8, 12.

It is doubtful if the average person who grows the Hale would recognize
it as shown in _The Plums of New York_, as it is supposed to be a yellow
plum; nevertheless the illustration is a good one so far as the fruits
go at least. When mature on the trees the fruits are yellow with a
faint blush, but in storage the color quickly changes into a pale red,
becoming, when the plum is at its best in appearance and quality, a light
currant-red. Hale, though large and handsome of fruit, is of questionable
value, failing both in fruit and tree. The flavor of this plum is good
in the judgment of most fruit connoisseurs, but others find it a little
too sweet and somewhat mawkish near the skin and close about the pit.
All agree, however, that the flesh clings too tightly to the stone for
pleasant eating and that the texture is too tender for good shipping.
But it is the tree that fails most markedly. Even on the grounds of this
Station, where the peach is practically hardy, Hale is but semi-hardy,
failing most often because with the best of care the wood does not ripen
properly. The habit of growth is not particularly good, the trees are
slow in coming in bearing, are not regularly productive and are readily
infected by brown-rot and the fruits much infested by curculio. On the
whole, it is to be regretted that Mr. Hale did not choose a better plum
to bear a name so distinguished in horticulture.

Luther Burbank offered this plum, a cross between Kelsey and Satsuma, for
sale under the name J, in 1893, and the following year as Prolific. J.
H. Hale, South Glastonbury, Connecticut, purchased the variety in 1894,
and introduced it as the Hale in 1896. In 1899, the American Pomological
Society considered it worthy a place on its fruit catalog list.

    Tree above medium in size, vigorous, vasiform, open-topped,
    semi-hardy, variable in productiveness; branches smooth
    except for the numerous, small, raised lenticels, somewhat
    thorny, dark ash-gray, the fruit spurs numerous; branchlets
    willowy, of medium thickness and length, with short internodes,
    greenish-red changing to light brown, shining, glabrous;
    lenticels numerous, small; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse,
    plump, free.

    Leaves sparse, folded upward, oblanceolate or narrowly obovate,
    one and three-quarters inches wide, three and one-half inches
    long, thin; upper surface glabrous except for scattering
    hairs, with a grooved midrib; lower surface light green,
    glabrous except along the midrib and larger veins; apex acute
    or abruptly pointed, base acute, margin finely serrate or
    crenate, eglandular; petiole nine-sixteenths inch long,
    slender, tinged red, glandless or with from one to four globose
    or reniform, greenish-yellow glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season early and of medium length; flowers appearing
    before the leaves, white; borne in thin clusters on lateral
    buds and spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels long, glabrous,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    obtuse, with numerous hair-like glands, nearly glabrous, erect;
    petals roundish-ovate, entire, not clawed; anthers yellowish;
    filaments short; pistil glabrous except at the base, much
    longer than the stamens.

    Fruit early, season short; one and three-quarters inches in
    diameter, roundish, halves equal; cavity of medium depth and
    width, abrupt, regular; suture a line; apex roundish; color
    light or greenish-yellow, more or less blushed with red on
    one side, becoming red at maturity, mottled, with thin bloom;
    dots numerous, small, whitish, conspicuous only where the skin
    is blushed; stem slender, five-eighths inch long, glabrous,
    detaching easily from the fruit; skin thin, tough, adhering;
    flesh yellowish, very juicy, fibrous, tender, melting next the
    skin but firmer at the center, sweet except near the pit; good
    in quality; stone adhering, three-quarters inch by five-eighths
    inch in size, roundish-oval, flattened, blunt but with a
    small, sharp tip, rough; ventral suture narrow and rather
    conspicuously winged; dorsal suture grooved.


HAMMER

[Illustration: HAMMER]

_Prunus hortulana mineri_ × _Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892. =2.= _Ia. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 275, 448. 1893. =3.= _Ibid._ 334. 1894. =4.= _Wis. Sta.
    Bul._ =63=:24, 39. 1897. =5.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:36. 1898.
    =6.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:274. 1900. =7.= _Waugh Plum Cult._
    150. 1901. =8.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc._ 144. 1901. =9.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =67=:274. 1904. =10.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:18. 1905.
    =11.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254, 255. 1905.

Hammer is one of the best native plums. On the Station grounds the
trees of this variety make the best orchard plants of any of the native
varieties, being large, vigorous, shapely and hardy, falling short only
in being a little uncertain in bearing. The fruits are good in quality,
handsome in appearance and keep and ship well, but crack badly in
unfavorable weather and, according to some writers, are quite subject to
brown-rot. Hammer extends the season of the Americana plums considerably,
for though a hybrid, it may best be ranked with the Americanas, and is
well worth planting in home orchards in New York, where the native plums
are too seldom found; in particular, this variety can be recommended for
the colder parts of this State where Domestica and Insititia plums are
not hardy.

Hammer is one of H. A. Terry’s numerous productions and was grown from a
seed of the Miner evidently fertilized by an Americana. The blood of the
latter is shown by its hardiness and its broad, Americana-like foliage.
The variety first fruited in 1888 and was sent out in 1892.

    Tree very large, vigorous, round-topped, widely spreading,
    hardy at Geneva, an uncertain bearer; trunk and larger limbs
    shaggy; branches long, rough, brash, thorny, dark ash-gray,
    with many, large lenticels; branchlets thick, very long,
    with long internodes, green changing to dull reddish-brown,
    glabrous, with raised lenticels of medium number and size;
    leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, plump, free.

    Leaves folded upward, oval or slightly obovate, two and
    one-eighth inches wide, four inches long, thin; upper surface
    somewhat rugose; lower surface pale green, very lightly
    pubescent along the midrib; apex taper-pointed, base obtuse,
    often unsymmetrical, margin coarsely and doubly serrate,
    eglandular; petiole three-quarters inch long, sparingly
    pubescent along one side, tinged red, glandless or with from
    one to four small, globose, greenish-brown glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season medium to late, long; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, fifteen-sixteenths inch across, white, with a
    disagreeable odor; borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs,
    in twos or in threes; pedicels five-eighths inch in length,
    slender, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, thinly pubescent within,
    glandular-serrate and with marginal hairs, somewhat reflexed;
    petals ovate or oval, irregularly crenate, tapering below
    into claws of medium length and breadth; anthers yellowish;
    filaments seven-sixteenths inch in length; pistil glabrous,
    equal to or shorter than the stamens in length.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period of average length; one
    and one-quarter inches in diameter, roundish-oval, slightly
    compressed, halves equal; cavity very shallow, narrow, flaring;
    suture an indistinct line; apex roundish; color crimson
    overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous, very small, light
    russet, inconspicuous; stem slender, five-eighths inch long,
    glabrous, not adhering to the fruit; skin thick, tough,
    inclined to crack under unfavorable conditions, separating
    readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, fibrous, tender and
    melting, sweet, strongly aromatic; good; stone semi-free,
    three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in size, flattened,
    roundish-oval, somewhat compressed at the base, abruptly
    pointed at the apex, rough; ventral suture rather narrow,
    faintly ridged; dorsal suture with a narrow, shallow groove.


HAND

[Illustration: HAND]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Horticulturist_ =2=:436. 1847. =2.= _Ibid._ =6=:21 fig.,
    187, 294. 1851. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 190, 214. 1856. =4.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 382. 1857. =5.= _Hogg Fruit Man._
    362. 1866. =6.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:19, fig. 10. 1873. =7.=
    _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 120. 1896. =8.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =131=:185. 1897. =9.= _Waugh Plum Cult._ 108 fig. 1901. =10.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 314, 315 fig. 1903. =11.= _Mass.
    Sta. An. Rpt._ =17=:159. 1905.

    Gen. Hand 1, 2. General Hand 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8. Genl. Hand 4.
    _General Hand_ 9, 10. _Montgomery_ 3 incor.

Unproductiveness and uncertainty in bearing keep this magnificent yellow
dessert plum from being one of the most commonly grown of all plums in
America. Even with these handicaps, it has maintained its popularity
for a century, is grown in all collections and shown in all exhibitions
of note. It is the largest of the Reine Claude plums, well molded, a
golden-yellow and when allowed to become fully ripe is most excellent in
flavor and pleasing in all the flesh attributes of a good dessert plum.
It is not as high in quality as some other of the Reine Claude plums, as,
for example the Washington, with which it is often compared, for it is a
little coarser in flesh and not as sprightly, but it is better than is
commonly thought, because it is seldom allowed to reach its best flavor
by full maturity. The trees on the Station grounds are all that could
be asked for even in bearing; and elsewhere size, vigor and hardiness
are usually satisfactory but productiveness is a weak point. The amateur
should always plant this variety and it would seem as if it were more
often worth planting in commercial orchards.

The history of this variety is well known. The original tree grew on
the place of General Hand, on the Conestoga River, about a mile from
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and first fruited about 1790. Thirty years
later a Mr. Miller procured grafts and succeeded in growing them. The
variety was brought to the notice of fruit-growers by E. W. Carpenter, a
nurseryman of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, who sent grafts to his brother,
S. Carpenter, of Lancaster, Ohio, and Robert Sinclair, Baltimore,
Maryland. To the latter the introduction of the Hand has been incorrectly
attributed. In 1856, Hand was listed in the fruit catalog of the American
Pomological Society.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, dense-topped, hardy, variable
    in productiveness; branches dark ash-gray, rough, with small
    lenticels; branchlets of medium thickness and length, with
    long internodes, green changing to brownish-red, pubescent
    early in the season, becoming less so at maturity, with few,
    inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds large, long, obtuse,
    appressed; leaf-scars large.

    Leaves folded backward, obovate or oval, two and three-eighths
    inches wide, four and one-half inches long; upper surface dark
    green, rugose, slightly hairy, with a shallow, grooved midrib;
    lower surface pale green, pubescent; apex and base acute,
    margin finely and doubly serrate; petiole three-quarters inch
    long, thickish, pubescent, tinged red, with from one to four
    small, globose, greenish-brown glands on the stalk or base of
    the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time, short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one and one-quarter inches across,
    white; borne sparsely on lateral buds and spurs; pedicels
    seven-eighths inch long, very pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube
    green, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse,
    pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, reflexed;
    petals roundish or obovate, slightly crenate, with short, broad
    claws; anthers yellowish; filaments three-eighths inch long;
    pistil lightly pubescent at the base, equal to the stamens in
    length.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; one and three-quarters
    inches in diameter, roundish-truncate or oblate, halves equal;
    cavity deep, flaring; suture shallow, distinct; apex flattened
    or depressed; color yellow, obscurely striped and mottled with
    green, overspread with thin bloom; dots numerous, whitish,
    inconspicuous, clustered about the apex; stem unusually long,
    averaging one and five-sixteenths inches in length, very
    pubescent, adhering strongly to the fruit; skin thick, tough,
    slightly astringent, separating readily; flesh golden-yellow,
    juicy, somewhat fibrous, firm, sweet, with pleasant, mild
    flavor; very good; stone semi-free or free, the cavity larger
    than the pit, seven-eighths inch by three-quarters inch in
    size, broadly oval, turgid, blunt at the base and apex,
    slightly roughened; ventral suture broad, sometimes winged;
    dorsal suture broadly and deeply grooved.


HARRIET

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =18=:441. 1882. =2.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 705.
    1884.

Harriet is little known in America, but as the variety grows on our
grounds it appears to be somewhat desirable. The type is that of Reine
Claude, the fruit being slightly yellower; the quality is very good and
the tree-characters are good. It is doubtful, however, in spite of these
attributes to recommend it, whether, with the multiplicity of plums of
this type, the variety in question can make headway in the United States.
Harriet was originated by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, about
1870. While considerably grown in England, it can hardly be said to be
one of the leading varieties in that country.

    Tree medium in size and vigor, spreading, open, productive;
    branchlets thick, very short, pubescent throughout the season;
    leaf-buds large, long, tipped brush-like at the apex; leaves
    folded upward, oval, one and one-half inches wide, two and
    three-quarters inches long, the young leaves bright red when
    opening; margin serrate or almost crenate; petiole tinged red,
    glandless or with one or two glands usually at the base of the
    leaf; blooming season intermediate, short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one inch across; borne on lateral buds and
    spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; about one and
    three-eighths inches in diameter, roundish-oblate, somewhat
    oblique, golden-yellow, sometimes mottled with red, overspread
    with thin bloom; flesh golden-yellow, firm, sweet, pleasant in
    flavor; of very good quality; stone clinging, five-eighths inch
    by one-half inch in size, oval, turgid, with slightly roughened
    surfaces.


HAWKEYE

[Illustration: HAWKEYE]

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 287. 1887. =2.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._
    441. 1889. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 55, 85. 1890. =4.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:38, 86. 1892. =5.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:40, 41. 1897. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 24. 1897. =7.=
    _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:37. 1898. =8.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:274.
    1900. =9.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 151. 1901. =10.= _Ont. Fr. Gr.
    Assoc._ 144. 1901. =11.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:13. 1901. =12.=
    _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:19. 1905. =13.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =162=:254, 255. 1905.

This variety is a very satisfactory and widely planted Americana. It is
typical of its species; and its foliage, fruit and pit in the color-plate
herewith presented all represent _Prunus americana_ very well. The fruit
of Hawkeye is more satisfactory than the tree, being both attractive in
appearance and pleasant to eat either out of hand or cooked; the chief
fault of the fruit is that it seems to be easily infected with brown-rot.
The trees are crooked in body and quite too straggling and at the same
time too dense in growth to make good orchard plants. It requires very
careful pruning and training to keep the trees at all manageable. In some
of the references given above it is stated that Hawkeye on its own roots
is a better tree than otherwise propagated. This variety belongs in the
middle west but it might be grown for home use in northern New York where
it is too cold for the European plums.

Hawkeye is a seedling of Quaker grown by H. A. Terry,[217] Crescent,
Iowa. It first fruited in 1882 and the following year was introduced by
the originator. In the Iowa Horticultural Society Report for 1887, Mr.
Terry stated that the original tree had borne five crops in succession
and he believed it to be the most valuable variety in cultivation for the
West and Northwest. The American Pomological Society placed this plum on
its fruit catalog list in 1897.

    Tree large, vigorous, rather upright at first, becoming
    spreading, low-headed, hardy, usually productive, but variable
    in some locations, susceptible to attacks of shot-hole fungus;
    branches numerous, dark brown, rough, thorny, with numerous,
    large lenticels; branchlets long, willowy, with internodes of
    medium length, green, changing to dull reddish-brown, shining,
    glabrous, with numerous large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds
    small, short, pointed, appressed.

    Leaves tinged red late in the season, nearly flat, oval or
    slightly obovate, two inches wide, four inches long, rather
    thin; upper surface dark green, smooth, glabrous, with midrib
    and larger veins deeply grooved; lower surface light green,
    lightly pubescent along the midrib and larger veins; apex
    taper-pointed, base very abrupt, margin coarsely and doubly
    serrate, the serrations often becoming spiny, eglandular;
    petiole rather slender, nine-sixteenths inch in length, tinged
    with pink, sparingly pubescent along one side, glandless or
    with one or two globose, greenish-brown glands.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing with the leaves, showy on account of the numerous,
    pure white, flat petals, with a somewhat disagreeable odor;
    borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs, in pairs; pedicels
    seven-sixteenths inch in length, glabrous, green with a
    distinct reddish tinge on one side; calyx-tube red, broadly
    obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes short, obtuse, pubescent on both
    surfaces, eglandular, with a hairy, serrate margin, somewhat
    reflexed; petals ovate, crenate, but somewhat fringed, long and
    narrowly clawed; anthers yellowish; filaments five-sixteenths
    inch long; pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period of medium length; about one
    and one-eighth inches in diameter, roundish-oval or ovate,
    not compressed, halves equal; cavity unusually shallow, very
    narrow; suture an indistinct line; apex roundish; color dull
    carmine, covered with thin bloom; dots numerous, gray or
    reddish, nearly obscure, with almost none around the base;
    stem slender, below medium in length; skin thick, tough,
    astringent, adhering; flesh pale, dull yellow, very juicy,
    slightly fibrous, watery and melting, sweet at first with a
    tart and somewhat astringent after-taste; good; stone adhering
    to the pulp, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    roundish-oval, flattened, smooth, blunt at the base and apex,
    conspicuously winged on the ventral suture, with a deep but
    narrow groove on the dorsal suture.


HUDSON

[Illustration: HUDSON]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 289. 1889. =2.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =103=:35 1894. =3.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =30=:168. 1896-97.
    =4.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:181 fig. 40 III, 187. 1897. =5.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 25. 1897. =6.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd
    Ser. =3=:52. 1900. =7.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 109. 1901.

    Hudson River Purple 6. Hudson River Purple Egg 1, 3, 4. _Hudson
    River Purple Egg_ 2, 5, 7. Purple Egg 2.

Hudson is limited in cultivation, belonging almost wholly to the Hudson
River Valley where it has long been somewhat of a favorite for both home
and market planting. The variety has few qualities of fruit to commend
it especially outside of the region where it is now grown and even here
its value is probably overrated. The fruits are of only medium size,
not markedly attractive in appearance and the quality is below the
average among standard plums. The trees are for most part very good in
constitution and habit of growth and in particular bear very well; they
have the faults of not bearing early and of being subject to black-knot.
The variety, and perhaps it is well, is being less planted than formerly.

Nothing is known of the origin of the Hudson except that it has been
grown in the Hudson River Valley for a good many years. About 1870 it
attracted the attention of S. D. Willard of Geneva, New York, who,
thinking it a valuable acquisition, commenced its propagation. In 1897,
it was listed by the American Pomological Society as a successful variety
for this region. J. R. Cornell, a well informed fruit-grower of Newburgh,
New York, in a letter written February 21, 1910, says, “I recall Hudson
very distinctly as it was grown when I was a small boy over fifty years
ago. I would not be surprised, if the facts could be obtained, to learn
that the variety came from Europe, in fact, I incline to that opinion.”

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, very productive, hardy;
    branches ash-gray, smooth except for the small, raised
    lenticels; branchlets slender, with long internodes,
    greenish-red changing to brownish-red, dull, glabrous early in
    the season becoming lightly pubescent at maturity, with small,
    inconspicuous lenticels; leaf-buds below medium in size and
    length, conical, strongly appressed.

    Leaves flattened, obovate or oval, two inches wide, three
    and three-quarters inches long; upper surface dark green,
    smooth, sparsely hairy along the grooved midrib; lower surface
    silvery-green, faintly pubescent; apex acute, base abrupt,
    margin serrate, eglandular or with small dark glands; petiole
    five-eighths inch long, thick, lightly pubescent, glandless or
    with from one to three greenish-yellow glands.

    Blooming season short; flowers appearing after the leaves,
    one and one-eighth inches across, white; borne in scattering
    clusters on lateral spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    nine-sixteenths inch long, glabrous except for a few
    scattering hairs; calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent
    at the base; calyx-lobes obtuse, lightly pubescent on both
    surfaces, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals obovate, crenate,
    tapering to short, broad claws; anthers yellowish; filaments
    three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit late, season of medium length; one and five-eighths
    inches by one and one-eighth inches in size, long-oval, halves
    unequal; cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt, regular; suture
    shallow; apex slightly pointed; color dark reddish-purple
    changing to purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; dots
    numerous, small, russet, inconspicuous; stem slender, one inch
    long, sparingly pubescent; skin thin, tender, sour, separating
    readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, rather tender, sweet next
    the skin but sour towards the center, aromatic; good; stone one
    and one-eighth inches by five-eighths inch in size, sometimes
    reddish, ovate, roughened and faintly pitted, acute at the base
    and apex; ventral suture wide, with numerous ridges; dorsal
    suture with a wide, shallow groove.


HULINGS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 23. 1828. =2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._
    261. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 277. 1845. =4.=
    _Horticulturist_ =1=:166. 1846. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 86.
    1862. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 705. 1884. =7.= Mathieu _Nom.
    Pom._ 435. 1885. =8.= _Guide Prat._ 158, 366. 1895.

    _Gloire de New York_, 6, 7, 8. _Huling’s Superb_ 7, 8. Huling’s
    Superb 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Huling’s Treffliche 7. _Keiser_ 2.
    _Keyser’s Plum_ 3, 6, 7, 8. Superbe de Huling 8.

Hulings is one of the largest of the Reine Claude group of plums and a
remarkably fine fruit in every respect. It is particularly agreeable
to the taste because of its sprightliness, which so many plums of its
type lack. As this variety grows in New York it has much to recommend
it for commercial plantations. Its lack of popularity among planters is
due somewhat to the wholesale substitution by nurserymen of spurious
varieties for it. Hulings originated early in the last century with a Mr.
Keyser of Pennsylvania who grew it from seed, but Dr. W. E. Hulings of
the same state brought it to public notice.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, dense-topped,
    productive; branchlets brash, thick, pubescent; leaves
    unusually large, obovate, three inches wide, six and one-half
    inches long, thick, leathery, rugose; margin crenate or
    serrate; petiole thick, tinged red, pubescent, with from one to
    three globose glands.

    Fruit maturing in mid-season; about one and seven-eighths
    inches in diameter, roundish, dull greenish-yellow, overspread
    with thin bloom; skin thin, somewhat sour; flesh greenish,
    firm but tender, sprightly; good to very good; stone clinging,
    one and one-eighth inches by three-quarters inch in size,
    broad-oval, medium turgid, with short, thick, slightly oblique
    apex; ventral suture often winged; dorsal suture wide, deep.


HUNGARIAN

[Illustration: HUNGARIAN]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:61. 1771. =2.= Willichs _Dom.
    Enc._ =4=:190. 1803. =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 143, 148.
    1831. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 2nd App. 156. 1876. =5.=
    Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 404. 1881. =6.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =6=:51, fig. 26. 1866-73. =7.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 568. 1876.
    =8.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 452. 1889. =9.= _Cal. State Board_
    Hort. 111 fig. 11. 1891. =10.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 474.
    1894. =11.= Lange _Allgem. Garten._ =2=:421. 1897. =12.= _Mich.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 465. 1893. =13.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:33.
    1897. =14.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 109. 1901.

    _Autriche Violette_ (_Pr. de_) 8. _Blaue Dattel Pflaume_ 8.
    Blue Egg-Plum? 2. Datte de Hungrie 13. _Dattelzwetsche_ 6.
    _Datte Violette_ 8. _Date de Hongrie_ 14. _Datte de Hongrie_
    4, 14. _Date Plum_ 7. D’Autriche 3. Frühe Dattelzwetsche 10.
    _Grosse u. Lange Früh Zwetsche_ 8. _Grosse Früh Zwetsche_
    8. Hungarian Date 9. _Hungarian Prune?_ 3, 14. Hungarica 7.
    Hungarian Prune 4, 11, 12. _Hungarian Plum_ 2. _Lange Violette
    Dattel Zwetsche_ 8. _Osterreichische Pflaume_ 8. _Prune-Datte_
    3, 6. _Prune Datte Violette_ 3. _Prune d’Autriche_ 6, 8.
    _Quetsche de Hongrie_ 8. _Quetsche Datte Violette_ 8. _Quetsche
    Datte_ 6, 8. Quetsche-Datte Violette 6. _Quetsche Hongroise_
    1. _Quetsche de Hongrie_ 6. _Sabel Pflaume_ 8. _Späte Dattel
    Pflaume_ 8. _Ungarische Pflaume_ 8. Ungarische Dattelzwetsche
    5. _Ungarishe Sabel Pflaume_ 8. _Violette Dattelzwetsche_ 6.
    Violette Dattelzwetsche 8. _Türkische Zwetsche_ 8. _Ungarische
    Zwetsche_ 8. _Virginische Ludwig’s Pflaume_ 8.

This plum, representing a type hardly known in America, may be a
descendant of a species distinct from _Prunus domestica_, and if not,
must at least be considered a well-marked division of the species named.
It differs but little from typical Domestica varieties in habit of growth
but the leaves are smaller, distinctly folded, and droop, giving an
aspect to the tree distinct from the Domesticas in general. But it is
the fruit that differs most. Fruit and stone are more elongated than in
other varieties of its supposed species and the stone is larger, flatter,
more pitted and more pointed at the base and apex. The stem, too, is
longer than in the average Domestica. These differences in leaf, fruit
and pit may be well seen if the color-plate of this variety be compared
with those of well-recognized Domesticas. It is doubtful if Hungarian is
worth cultivating in New York though it is larger than the commonly grown
German Prune, with which it must be compared, and is fully equal if not
better in quality but its type is unknown and consumers hesitate to buy
the unknown. It is well worth a place in private collections.

Nothing is known of the history of this plum other than that it has been
long under cultivation and that, as its name suggests, it came from
Hungary. As in the case of many of the varieties which came from Hungary
there are several strains of this plum. The variety that is known in
America as Hungarian was reported by Downing in 1876, as originating in
Belgium, a mistake, as this is known to have been widely spread for a
long time in Europe and European authorities trace it back to Hungary.
The Ungarish of Budd, the Hungarian Prune of the Pacific Coast which is
Pond Seedling, and the Date Plum, a yellow plum of Downing, all passing
under the name “Hungarian,” are distinct varieties.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, dense-topped, hardy,
    productive; branches ash-gray, smooth, with few, small
    lenticels; branchlets thick, long, with internodes of average
    length, greenish-red changing to brownish-red, dull, sparsely
    pubescent, with few, small, inconspicuous lenticels; leaf-buds
    of medium size and length, conical, appressed.

    Leaves drooping, folded upward, oval or obovate, one and
    five-eighths inches wide, three and one-quarter inches
    long, thick; upper surface dark green, rough, hairy, with a
    deeply, narrowly grooved midrib; lower surface pale green,
    pubescent; apex and base acute, margin serrate, eglandular or
    with small brown glands; petiole nine-sixteenths inch long,
    pubescent, tinged red, glandless or with one or two globose,
    greenish-yellow glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, seven-eighths inch across, the buds
    tinged yellow, changing to white on opening, not clustered but
    distributed on lateral spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    seven-eighths inch long, very slender, pubescent, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes
    narrow, acuminate, thickly pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals narrowly ovate, serrate,
    converging at the base into narrow claws; anthers yellowish;
    filaments seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to
    the stamens in length, small, slender.

    Fruit late, season short; one and five-eighths inches by one
    inch in size, distinctly oblong, somewhat necked, swollen
    on the suture side, compressed, halves unequal; cavity very
    shallow and narrow, abrupt; suture shallow; apex pointed;
    color dark reddish-purple, overspread with thick bloom; dots
    numerous, small, russet, inconspicuous; stem slender, one and
    one-eighth inches long, pubescent, adhering well to the fruit;
    skin thin, tough, slightly sour, separating readily; flesh
    yellowish-green, juicy, firm but tender, sweet, mild; good to
    very good; stone semi-free to free, one and one-eighth inches
    by one-half inch in size, irregular long-oval, flattened,
    necked at the base, acute at the apex, with thickly pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture wide, blunt; dorsal suture with a
    wide, deep groove.


ICKWORTH

[Illustration: ICKWORTH]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =1=:734. 1841. =2.= _Ibid._ =2=:176. 1842.
    =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 302. 1845. =4.= Thomas _Am. Fruit
    Cult._ 345. 1849. =5.= Elliott _Fr. Book._ 420. 1854. =6.=
    Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 517. 1859. =7.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:57,
    Pl. 29. 1866-73. =8.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 413. 1883. =9.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 706. 1884. =10.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435. 1889.
    =11.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 358. 1891. =12.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =131=:187. 1897. =13.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 110. 1901.

    Ickworth Imperatrice 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12.
    _Ickworth Imperatrice_ 13. _Imperatrice Ickworth_ 10.
    Imperatrice Jckworth 7. _Jckworth Imperatrice_ 7. _Knight’s No.
    6._ 3, 5, 9, 10.

Ickworth is hardly known in America though in England it is a favorite
late plum noted as being one of the best of all plums for late keeping.
In New York the plums of this variety are too small for the market and
are not high enough in quality for a home plum; moreover, the plums
do not always ripen in this latitude. In California Ickworth has been
found to make a very good prune and to ship very well in the green state
but here again small size debars it from great commercial value. The
habits of growth of Ickworth are very good and so markedly so that when
considered with the late keeping qualities of the fruit, one wishes that
this variety might be bred with a larger plum of better quality with the
hope of an offspring from the union of especial value as a late plum.

Knight, the noted English pomologist, raised this plum from the
Imperatrice fertilized by Golden Drop and named it after Ickworth Park,
near Bury St. Edmunds. Knight aimed in raising this and other plums to
produce a fruit containing sufficient sugar to keep well and not shrivel.
In Ickworth he succeeded to a high degree.

    Tree large, rather vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy,
    productive; branches dark ash-gray, roughened by the numerous,
    large, raised lenticels; branchlets of medium thickness and
    length, with internodes of average length, green changing
    to brownish-drab, dull, lightly pubescent, with numerous,
    inconspicuous, small lenticels, leaf-buds small, short,
    conical, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate or oval, one and three-eighths
    inches wide, three inches long, thick, leathery; upper surface
    dark green, shining, pubescent only along the grooved midrib;
    lower surface silvery-green, sparingly pubescent; apex abruptly
    pointed or acute, base acute, margin crenate, with small dark
    glands; petiole one-half inch long, thick, greenish, pubescent
    along one side, glandless or with from one to four large,
    reniform or globose, yellowish-brown glands usually on the
    stalk.

    Season of bloom intermediate, long; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one inch across, white; borne in thin clusters
    on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    seven-sixteenths inch long, below medium in thickness,
    glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, lightly pubescent, with few glands
    and marginal hairs, erect; petals roundish or roundish-oval,
    finely crenate, tapering below to short, broad claws; anthers
    yellowish; filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil glabrous,
    longer than the stamens.

    Fruit very late, season long; one and three-eighth inches by
    one and one-quarter inches in size, oval or roundish-oval,
    sometimes slightly compressed, halves unequal; cavity shallow,
    narrow, abrupt; suture shallow, wide; apex one-sided, roundish
    or depressed; color purplish-red changing to purplish-black,
    mottled, overspread with thick bloom, dots numerous, very
    small, inconspicuous, scattered between irregular flecks
    and nettings; stem thirteen-sixteenths inch long, lightly
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thick, tender,
    adhering; flesh dull yellowish, juicy, sweet, mild, pleasant;
    good; stone usually clinging, seven-eighths inch by one-half
    inch in size, irregularly oval, flattened, faintly pitted,
    acute at the base, blunt at the apex; ventral suture wide,
    heavily furrowed, swollen; dorsal suture widely and shallowly
    grooved.


IMPERATRICE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 67, 69. 1699. =2.= Langley _Pomona_
    95, Pl. XXV fig. III. 1729. =3.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._
    105, Pl. XVIII. 1768. =4.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:45, Tab. 200
    fig. 2. 1796. =5.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 3. 1807. =6.= Forsyth
    _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 20. 1803. =7.= _Pom. Mag._ =1=:33. 1828.
    =8.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 148. 1831. =9.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:60. 1832. =10.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 290. 1845. =11.=
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 287, 383. 1846. =12.= Thomas
    _Am. Fruit Cult._ 344. 1849. =13.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 416.
    1854. =14.= McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ =2=:529. 1855. =15.= Thompson
    _Gard. Ass’t_ 515. 1859. =16.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:101. 1873.
    =17.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1877. =18.= Hogg _Fruit Man._
    687. 1884. =19.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 423, 452. 1889. =20.=
    _Guide Prat._ 161, 358. 1895.

    Blue Perdrigon, of some 2. Blaue Kaiserin 19. Blue Imperatrice
    9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18. _Blue Imperatrice_ 16, 19. Die
    Veischenfarbige Kaiserinnpflaume 4. Empress I. _Empress_ 5,
    6, 9, 18, 19. _Fürsten Zwetsche_ 19. _Fürstenzwetsche_ 20.
    _Hoheitspflaume_ 19, 20. Imperatrice Blue 8. _Imperatrice_
    7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19. Imperatrice Violette 3,
    16, 20. _Imperatrice Violette_ 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14,
    15, 18, 19. _Late Red Imperial_ 9. _Late Violet_, of some
    2. _Prinzessin Pflaume_ 19. Prune d’Altesse? 9. _Red Magnum
    Bonum_ 9. _Red Imperial_ 9. Smith’s large October? 9. The
    Imperatrice Plum 7. _Veritable Imperatrice_ 8, 10, 13, 14, 15,
    19. _Violette_ 8, 10, 13, 14, 15, 19. Violette Kaiserin 19.
    _Violette Kaiserin_ 16, 20, _Violet Empress_ 9, 19.

Imperatrice has been long known and widely grown but the variety has no
especial cultural value in the United States, the fruit being too small
and too poor in quality. If it has any merit, it is keeping quality, the
fruit hanging well on the tree and keeping well, even improving after
picking.

This is an old variety, well known in Austria, France and England
during the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries. Like most long-known
varieties its nomenclature is badly confused. Writers have confounded it
with Semiana, the Perdrigons, German Prune and other plums of similar
appearance. Duhamel regarded this variety as Perdrigon Late, holding that
the true Imperatrice is nearly round. Calvel, also, describes a roundish
plum under this name in his _Traite Complet sur les Pepinieres_. It is
probable, however, that both Duhamel and Calvel were mistaken as all
other authors describe an obovate plum. This variety was introduced into
America early in the last century but has never become popular. It is of
interest, nevertheless, since it has been a leading European variety, is
a parent of a number of other varieties and its name is given to a group
of plums. The American Pomological Society added it to its fruit catalog
list in 1877, but dropped it in 1883.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, productive; leaves
    obovate or oval, two and one-quarter inches wide, four and
    one-quarter inches long, slightly rugose; margin crenate;
    petiole one inch long, thick, tinged red, pubescent, glandless,
    or with one or two small glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Fruit late; one and one-half inches by one and three-eighths
    inches in size, roundish or ovate, purplish-black, overspread
    with medium thick bloom; flesh golden-yellow, rather dry, firm
    but tender, sweet; of fair quality; stone free, one inch by
    three-quarters inch in size, roundish-ovate, the surfaces often
    granular and with a reddish tinge.


IMPERIAL EPINEUSE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 48, 50. 1897-98. =2.= _U. S. D.
    A. Div. Pom. Bul._ =7=:316. 1898. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._
    2nd Ser. =3=:53 1900. =4.= Bailey _Cyc. Hort._ 1378. 1901. =5.=
    Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 221, 224. 1908.

    _Clairac Mammoth_ 1, 5. Imperial Epineux 3.

Imperial Epineuse is well worthy a trial in New York. It is not surpassed
in quality by any other plum of its color. It is one of the largest
plums in the Prune group and is made further attractive by a handsome
reddish-purple color which is lighter or darker according to the exposure
of the plums to the sun. As grown in two orchards near Geneva the
tree-characters are exceptionally good; the crop is so borne on the main
limbs as to be protected from the sun and the tree is particularly large
and vigorous, its strong upright growth being a striking characteristic
of the variety. If the variety proves to be as valuable elsewhere in the
State in all characters as it is here it cannot but make a very desirable
plum for the market.

The Imperial Epineuse was found growing as a chance seedling about 1870
in an abandoned monastery near Clairac, in the Valley of Lot, the great
prune district of France. It was first brought to the United States by
Felix Gillett of Nevada City, California, who received the variety with
several others in 1883, three years previous to a similar importation
made by John Rock of Niles, California. After testing the variety Mr.
Gillett mentioned it, without a name, in his catalog in 1888 but owing to
the scarcity of the trees was unable to introduce it to the trade until
1893 when it was sent out under the name “Clairac Mammoth,” from the name
of its place of origin. In 1895 E. Smith & Sons of Geneva, New York,
received this variety from Gillett and grew it under the name “Clarice
Mammoth”.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, fairly productive; branches
    numerous, covered with many fruit-spurs; branchlets twiggy,
    marked with scarf-skin; leaf-buds large, very free, broad
    at the base; leaves folded backward, obovate, one and
    three-quarters inches wide, three and one-half inches long,
    thick, rugose, glabrous except along the deeply and widely
    grooved midrib; petiole one inch long, tinged red, glandless
    or with from one to three globose glands; blooming season
    intermediate in time and length; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one inch across, singly or in threes.

    Fruit rather late, season short to medium in length; large,
    slightly obovate, purplish-red, darker on the sunny side,
    mottled, overspread with thick bloom; flesh greenish-yellow,
    fibrous, rather tender, sweet, agreeable in flavor; good to
    very good; stone clinging, one inch by five-eighths inch
    in size, irregular-oval, flattened, obliquely but bluntly
    contracted at the base, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture
    narrow, prominent, often distinctly winged.


IMPERIAL GAGE

[Illustration: IMPERIAL GAGE]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Am. Gard. Cal._ 588. 1806. =2.= Prince _Treat. Hort._
    25, 26. 1828. =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147, 148. 1831.
    =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:56. 1832. =5.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._
    209. 1835. =6.= _Mag. Hort._ =6=:123. 1840. =7.= _Cultivator_
    =10=:167 fig. 1843. =8.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 278 fig.
    107. 1845. =9.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 302, 383.
    1846. =10.= _N. Y. Agr. Soc. Rpt._ 343 fig. 1847. =11.= Thomas
    _Am. Fruit Cult._ 325, 326 fig. 254. 1849. =12.= _Mag. Hort._
    =16=:454. 1850. =13.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 54. 1852. =14.=
    Elliott _Fr. Book_ 411. 1854. =15.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 148,
    Pl. 5 fig. 1. 1864. =16.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 413. 1883. =17.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 443. 1889. =18.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 355.
    1891. =19.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =103=:34. 1894. =20.= _Guide
    Prat._ 154, 364. 1895. =21.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:187.
    1897. =22.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =134=:42. 1902. =23.= _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =162=:239, 254, 255. 1905.

    _Flushing Gage_ 7, 8, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17, 20. Flushing Gage 3,
    9. Harper 22. _Imperial Gage_ 17, 20. _Imperial Green Gage_
    7. _Jenkinson’s Imperial_ 6, 14, 15. _Prince’s Gage_ 4, 12,
    17. Prince’s Imperial Gage 4, 5, 6, 10. _Prinzens Kaiser Reine
    Claude_ 20. Prince’s Kaiser Reine-Claude 17. _Prince’s Imperial
    Gage_ 8, 11, 14, 15, 17, 20. _Prince’s White Gage_ 4, 12, 17.
    _Reine-Claude de Flushings_ 20. Reine-Claude Imperiale 20.
    _Reine-Claude Imperiale_ 17. _Reine-Claude Verte Imperiale_
    17. _Reine-Claude Imperiale de Prince_ 17, 20. _Reine-Claude
    Blanche de Boston_ 17, 20. _Reine-Claude Verte Superieure_ 20.
    _Superior Gage_ 9. _Superior Green Gage_ 12, 14, 15, 17, 20.
    Superior Green Gage? 3. _Superiour Green Gage_ 8. White Gage?
    1, 2, 20. _White Gage_ 14, 15. _White Gage of Boston_ 7, 8, 11,
    17.

Probably there is more contradictory evidence as to the value of
Imperial Gage than of any other American grown plum. It is down in
some of the fruit books as being the largest of all the Reine Claude
plums and in others as being too small to be desirable; in some, as
being of highest quality and in others as being quite too insipid to be
called a dessert fruit. These contradictions have arisen because the
variety grows quite differently in different soils. The Imperial Gage
is best adapted to light sandy soils, growing largest and being best
in quality on such soils and making the poorest show of all on heavy
clay. The illustration in _The Plums of New York_ shows it as it grows
on an unsuitable soil—small, poorly colored, worthless for a money-crop
and not very desirable for home use. The technical description is
also based on trees grown and fruit produced on soil to which it is
illy-adapted. The trees from which these fruits came are nearly perfect
in habits of growth, vigorous, hardy, healthy and bearing large crops of
plums—such as they are. On suitable soils the variety possesses all the
qualities that constitute a fine plum, the product being adapted alike
for dessert, canning, home and market. It has an especially agreeable
flavor in all the various culinary preparations in which it can be used.
Its capriciousness does not warrant its being largely planted but for
selected locations it will prove a most valuable fruit.

The Princes in their nursery at Flushing, Long Island, New York, about
the year 1790, planted the pits of twenty-five quarts of the Green Gage
plum and from these produced, among others, a plum which they called the
White Gage. William R. Prince, in order to distinguish this variety from
the other Gage plums, changed the name to Prince’s Imperial Gage, now
shortened to Imperial Gage. In 1852, the American Pomological Society
placed it on its catalog list of recommended fruits.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, open-topped, hardy,
    very productive; branches ash-gray, smooth, with conspicuous,
    transverse cracks in the bark, with lenticels of medium size;
    branchlets slender, short, with internodes above medium in
    length, greenish-red changing to dark brownish-red, dull,
    sparingly pubescent throughout the season, with small,
    inconspicuous lenticels; leaf-buds medium in size and length,
    conical, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, oval or slightly obovate, one and
    seven-eighths inches wide, three and one-quarter inches long,
    thick; upper surface dark green, rugose, pubescent, with a
    shallow groove on the midrib; lower surface yellowish-green,
    pubescent; apex abruptly pointed, base acute, margin crenate,
    with small dark glands; petiole one-half inch long, thick,
    pubescent, purplish-red along one side, glandless or with one
    or two small, globose, yellowish-green glands usually on the
    stalk.

    Blooming season short; flowers one and one-eighth inches
    across, white; borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in
    pairs; pedicels three-quarters inch long, pubescent, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent, with a swollen
    ring at the base; calyx-lobes above medium in width, obtuse,
    pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, slightly
    reflexed; petals broadly obovate, crenate, tapering below to
    short, broad claws; anthers yellowish; filaments three-eighths
    inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the stamens; stigma
    large.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season;
    one and nine-sixteenths inches in diameter, oval or slightly
    ovate, compressed, halves equal; cavity very shallow and
    narrow, abrupt; suture shallow, often a line; apex roundish
    or depressed; color dull greenish-yellow, with obscure green
    streaks, mottled and sometimes faintly tinged red on the sunny
    side, overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous, small,
    grayish, obscure, clustered about the apex; stem three-quarters
    inch long, pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin,
    tender, separating readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, firm
    but tender, sweet, mild; good to very good; stone nearly free,
    one inch by five-eighths inch in size, oval, flattened, with
    pitted surfaces; rather blunt at the base becoming acute in the
    largest fruits, very blunt at the apex; ventral suture wide,
    ridged; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


ITALIAN PRUNE

[Illustration: ITALIAN PRUNE]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831. =2.= Prince _Pom.
    Man._ =2=:78. 1832. =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 262. 1832. =4.=
    Manning _Book of Fruits_ 106. 1838. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    214, 220. 1836. =6.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 381. 1857. =7.=
    _Cultivator_ =8=:52 fig. 1860. =8.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 366.
    1866. =9.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 924. 1869. =10.= _Pom.
    France_ =7=: No. 22, fig. 1871. =11.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:69,
    fig. 35. 1866-73. =12.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 442.
    1881. =13.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ No. 2, Pl. 4, 22. 1882. =14.=
    Barry _Fr. Garden_ 412. 1883. =15.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_
    360. 1887. =16.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 436. 1889. =17.= Wickson
    _Cal. Fruits_ 358. 1891. =18.= _Guide Prat._ 155, 362. 1895.
    =19.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:23 fig. 1897. =20.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =131=:187, fig. 44. 1897. =21.= _Wash. Sta. Bul._ =38=:7,
    8. 1899. =22.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =44=:92. 1899. =23.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 111 fig. 1901. =24.= _U. S. D. A. Div. Pom.
    Bul._ =10=:6. 1901. =25.= _Mass. Sta. An. Rpt._ =17=:158. 1905.

    _Altesse Double_ 8, 9, 10, 15, 18. _August Zwetsche_ 16.
    _Auguste Zwetsche_ 10, 18. _Blaue Riesenzwetsche_ 16, 18.
    _Bleue d’Italie_ 15. _Couetsche d’Italie_ 18. _Couetsche
    Fellenberg_ 10, 18. _D’Italie_ 18. _Double Blackpruim_ 16, 18.
    _Fausse Altesse_ 16, 18. Fellemberg 14. _Fellemberg_ 8, 16,
    18. _Fellenberg_ 5, 9, 11, 16, 18, 19, 20, 23. _Fellenburg_
    22. Fellenberg 5, 6, 7, 9, 17. Fellenburg 25. _Feltemberg_ 10,
    18. _Fellenberg Quetsche_ 16, 18. _Fellenberger Zwetsche_ 12,
    13, 16, 18. _Grosse Früh Zwetsche?_ 16. _German Prune_ 19,
    22. _Italienische Blaue Zwetsche_ 11, 16. _Italianische blaue
    zwetsche_ 18. _Italian Guetsche_ 10, 18. _Italian Prune_ 6,
    7, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18, 25. _Italian Quetsche_ 8, 9, 15, 16.
    _Italianische Zwetsche_ 18. _Italienische Pflaumen Zwetsche_
    16. _Italienische Zwetsche_ 11, 13. _Italianische Zwetsche_
    10. _Italianische blanc Zwetsche_ 10. Italienische Zwetsche
    12, 13, 16. _Large German Prune_ 17. _Prune d’Italie_ 8, 9,
    10, 16. _Pflaume mit dem Pfirschenblatt_ 18. _Pflaume Mit dem
    Pfirsichblatt_ 16. _Prune Suisse_ 6. _Quetsche_ 18. _Quetsche
    Bleue d’Italie_ 10, 11, 16, 18. Quetsche d’Italie 1, 10,
    11, 15, 18. _Quetsche d’Italie_ 3, 8, 9, 11, 16. _Schweizer
    Zwetsche_ 12, 13, 16. _Schweizerzwetsche_ 18. _Swiss Prune_ 17,
    19, 22. _Semiana_ 8, 10, 16, 18. _Turkish Prune_ 22. _Zwetsche
    von Dätlikon_ 16, 18.

The Italian Prune is one of the most widely grown of all plums. Its
home is Italy and it is grown in all of the plum regions of continental
Europe; is well known in England; is third or fourth in popularity in
the Atlantic States of America; is by long odds the leading plum in the
Pacific Northwest where it is chiefly used in prune-making and is grown
somewhat for prunes and for shipping green in California. There are
several reasons why this plum is so popular. To begin with, it is finely
flavored whether eaten out of hand, stewed or otherwise prepared for the
table or cured as a prune. The fruit is a little too tart to be ranked
as a first-rate dessert plum and yet it is one of the best of the prunes
for this purpose, though it must be fully ripe to be fit for dessert; in
cooking it changes to a dark, wine color, very attractive in appearance,
with a most pleasant, sprightly flavor; as a cured prune the flesh is
firm and meaty, yet elastic, of good color and a perfect freestone,
making when cooked the same attractive looking, fine-flavored, sprightly
sauce to be had from the green fruits; the prunes from this variety, too,
are noted for long-keeping. In the uncured state the variety keeps and
ships well. The trees are usually large, hardy, productive, well formed
and bear regularly; yet they are not ideal and the variety fails chiefly
in tree-characters. The trees are often capricious to soil and climate,
do not always bear well, seem to be susceptible to diseases, are preyed
upon by insects and suffer in particular from dry or hot weather. Were
all of these troubles of the tree to befall the variety at one time it
would of necessity give way to better sorts, but happily they are to be
found for most part in illy-adapted conditions or in certain seasons; the
Italian Prune well cared for in locations to which it is suited must long
remain one of the leading plums despite the faults of the trees.

The Italian Prune originated in Italy at least a century ago and has
long been common in northern Italy, especially in the vicinity of Milan.
The London Horticultural Society catalog for 1831 first mentions it in
England and the following year it was described in America by Prince
as an excellent prune recently introduced from Europe. The American
Pomological Society recommended it in 1856 as worthy of further testing
and in 1862 it was added to the fruit catalog list of this society.
The origin of the name Fellenberg, a very common synonym, is explained
by Lauche[218] who says: “It came to Germany through a Mr. Fellenberg
and is therefore spread under his name and also under the names
Schweizerzwetsche and Fellenberger Zwetsche.” He further adds that the
variety “is still not known in Germany as it deserves, considering its
quality, size and productiveness.”

    Tree of medium size, rather vigorous, spreading or upright,
    low-topped, hardy, usually productive; branches ash-gray,
    smooth, with small, raised lenticels; branchlets short,
    with internodes of medium length, greenish-red changing to
    brownish-drab, pubescent, with small lenticels; leaf-buds of
    medium size and length, conical, appressed; leaf-scars large.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate or oval, two inches wide, four
    and one-half inches long; upper surface dark green, pubescent;
    lower surface silvery-green, heavily pubescent; apex and base
    acute, margin doubly crenate, with small, dark glands; petiole
    five-eighths inch long, above medium thickness, pubescent,
    tinged red, with from one to three globose, greenish-brown
    glands usually on the stalk.

    Season of bloom intermediate and short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one and three-sixteenths inches across,
    in the buds tinged yellow, changing to white when expanded;
    borne on lateral spurs, rarely on lateral buds, singly or in
    pairs; pedicels three-quarters inch long, thick, pubescent,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent at the
    base; calyx-lobes long and narrow, acute or narrowly obtuse,
    pubescent on both surfaces and along the glandular-serrate
    margin, reflexed, inclined to curl at the tips; petals oval or
    obovate, dentate, tapering to broad claws of medium length;
    anthers yellowish; filaments seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil
    pubescent at the base, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit late, season short; one and seven-eighths inches by one
    and one-half inches in size, long-oval, enlarged on the suture
    side, slightly compressed, halves unequal; cavity very shallow
    and narrow, abrupt; suture shallow to medium; apex bluntly
    pointed; color purplish-black, overspread with very thick
    bloom; dots numerous, small, light brown, somewhat conspicuous;
    stem inserted at one side of the base, one inch in length,
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, somewhat
    tough, separating readily; flesh greenish-yellow changing to
    yellow, juicy, firm, subacid, slightly aromatic; very good
    to best; stone free, smaller than the cavity, one inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, irregular-oval, flattened, roughened
    and pitted, necked at the base, abruptly tipped at the apex;
    ventral suture prominent, heavily ridged, sometimes strongly
    winged; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


JAPEX

_Triflora_ ×

    =1.= _N. Y. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:611. 1893.

    Japanese Seedling X. 1.

This plum, parentage unknown, was received from Burbank by the New York
Experiment Station in 1893 for testing, under the name Japanese Seedling
X. While in no way wonderfully remarkable, its earliness, attractive
color, good quality and productiveness have been such that it has been
retained, the cumbersome name having been changed to Japex. The majority
of the characters of the variety are plainly those of Triflora, yet the
fruits in appearance would lead one to call it a Domestica.

    Tree very large, vigorous, vasiform, very productive; branches
    slender, sparingly thorny; leaf-scars thick; leaf-buds
    unusually short; leaves obovate or ovate, two and one-quarter
    inches wide, four inches long; margin finely serrate varying to
    crenate, with few dark glands; blooming season short; flowers
    appearing before the leaves; borne in clusters on lateral buds
    and spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit very early, season short; one and one-eighth inches
    in diameter, roundish, dark purplish-red or purplish-black,
    covered with medium thick bloom; flesh light yellow, very
    juicy, somewhat melting, sweet next to the skin, but tart near
    the pit, aromatic; good; stone clinging, three-quarters inch by
    one-half inch in size, oval.


JEFFERSON

[Illustration: JEFFERSON]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 279, 280 fig. 108. 1845, =2.=
    _Horticulturist_ =1=:11, 93. 1846. =3.= Floy-Lindley _Guide
    Orch. Gard._ 420. 1846. =4.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 325, 326,
    fig. 251. 1849. =5.= _Mag. Hort._ =16=:453 fig. 25. 1850. =6.=
    Hovey _Fr. Am._ =2=:1, Pl. 1851. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 54.
    1852. =8.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 411. 1854. =9.= Thompson _Gard.
    Ass’t_ 518, Pl. 1. 1859. =10.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:17, Pl.
    9. 1866-73. =11.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 28. 1871. =12.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 707. 1884. =13.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ No.
    95, Col. Pl. 1894. =14.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:188. 1897.

    _Bingham_ incor. 2, 8. Prune Jefferson 11.

Jefferson has long been popular in America and is highly spoken of
by English, French and German pomologists as well, possibly ranking
highest in the Old World of all Domesticas which have had their origin
in America. The popularity of the variety is waning, however, chiefly
because it is lacking in the essentials demanded in a market fruit. There
can be no question as to the standing of Jefferson as to quality—it is
one of the best of all dessert plums. Grown under favorable conditions
and when fully ripe, it is a golden-yellow with a delicate blush and
bloom, large for a plum in the Reine Claude group, a well-turned oval in
shape, withal one of the handsomest plums. The color-plate maker did not
do it justice. It fails as a market variety because the trees are late
in coming in bearing, not always certain in bearing, a little particular
as to soils and not quite hardy though one of the hardiest of all Reine
Claudes. Both tree and fruit are too delicate for the market-grower and
the market-men. As to its value for private places and fruit connoisseurs
there can be no doubt—it is one of the choicest. It would seem that there
should be a place for Jefferson for the fancy trade in the markets, as it
would grace the show-window of any delicatessen store; but unfortunately
there are few fruit-growers in America to cater to such a trade.

Jefferson was raised by a Judge Buel, Albany, New York, about 1825.
The originator presented a tree of this variety to the Massachusetts
Horticultural Society in 1829, and in 1841 trees were given to the
London Horticultural Society which fruited in 1845. The parentage of
the variety is unknown; Floy thought it was a seedling of Washington;
Elliott suggested that it was “from a seed of Coe’s Golden Drop, which in
growth and wood, it closely resembles.” In 1852, the American Pomological
Society placed this variety on its catalog list of fruits worthy of
general cultivation.

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped,
    hardy at Geneva, productive; branches ash-gray, smooth, with
    small, numerous, lenticels; branchlets slender, short, with
    long internodes, greenish-red changing to dark brownish-red,
    dull, lightly pubescent, with inconspicuous, small lenticels;
    leaf-buds large, long, pointed, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate, one and three-quarters inches
    wide, three and three-quarters inches long, thick; upper
    surface sparingly pubescent, with a grooved midrib; lower
    surface yellowish-green, pubescent; apex and base acute, margin
    serrate, with small, dark glands; petiole three-quarters inch
    long, tinged purplish-red along one side, glandless or with
    from one to three small, globose, yellowish glands usually on
    the stalk.

    Season of bloom medium, short; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one and one-eighth inches across, white; borne on
    lateral spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels three-quarters
    inch long, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    glabrous, with a swollen ring at the base; calyx-lobes obtuse,
    pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate and with fine
    marginal hairs, erect; petals roundish or obovate, dentate,
    tapering to very short and broad claws; anthers yellowish;
    filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil pubescent at the
    base, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; one and five-eighths
    inches by one and one-half inches in size, roundish-oval, not
    compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt;
    suture very shallow, indistinct; apex roundish; color
    greenish-yellow, changing to bronze-yellow, sometimes with
    faint pink blush on the exposed cheek, often indistinctly
    streaked and mottled with green before full maturity; dots
    numerous, very small, gray or reddish, inconspicuous; stem
    seven-eighths inch long, thinly pubescent, adhering well to the
    fruit; skin thin, tough, slightly adhering; flesh deep yellow,
    juicy, firm but tender, sweet, mild, pleasant; very good; stone
    semi-free, one inch by three-quarters inch in size, flattened,
    broadly oval, abruptly tipped, with a short neck at the base,
    blunt at the apex, with rough and pitted surfaces; ventral
    suture heavily furrowed, winged; dorsal suture with a wide,
    deep groove.


JUICY

[Illustration: JUICY]

_Prunus munsoniana_ × _Prunus triflora_

    =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 20. 1893. =2.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 53.
    1897. =3.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:15. 1898. =4.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =113=:161. 1899. =5.= _Conn. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 155. 1900. =6.=
    _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256. 257. 1905. =7.= _Mass. Sta. An.
    Rpt._ =17=:161. 1905.

Juicy has been widely tested and in general is considered of very little
cultural importance, failing chiefly because of the inferior quality of
the plums. The variety is an interesting cross, however, and has given
a tree so much more vigorous and so much better adapted to orchard
purposes than its native parent, quite equalling the Triflora parent in
tree-characters, as to suggest the value of this cross for improving the
trees of our native plums. This plum, like Golden, was grown by Luther
Burbank from a seed of Robinson fertilized by pollen of Abundance. In
1893 the originator sold the new variety to John Lewis Childs, Floral
Park, New York, who introduced it the following year. The variety has not
escaped without some confusion as to its origin for its parentage has
been published as a cross between Robinson and Kelsey.[219]

    Tree very large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, productive;
    branches sparingly thorny; leaves broadly oblanceolate or oval,
    one and one-quarter inches wide, three inches long; margin
    finely serrate or sometimes crenate, with dark reddish-glands;
    petiole short, slender, with from two to five globose glands on
    the stalk; blooming season of medium length; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, three-quarters inch across; borne in dense
    clusters on lateral buds and spurs, in threes or fours; anthers
    so numerous as to give a yellowish color to the flower-clusters.

    Fruit mid-season, period of ripening long; one and
    three-quarters inches by one and three-eighths inches in size,
    nearly round, dark golden-yellow with bright red blush, covered
    with thin bloom; flesh golden-yellow, very juicy, melting,
    sweet next to the skin, but tart at the pit, aromatic; of fair
    quality; stone clinging, five-eighths inch by one-half inch in
    size, oval, turgid, with slightly pitted surfaces.


KELSEY

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =24=:339. 1882. =2.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 272.
    1886. =3.= _Gard. Mon._ =29=:305, 335-367. 1887. =4.= _U. S.
    D. A. Rpt._ 635, 652. 1887. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 95, 126.
    1887. =6.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 35. 1888. =7.= _Ibid._ 51,
    99. 1889. =8.= _Rev. Hort._ 502, 542. 1890. =9.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Rpt._ 105, 106, 125. 1891. =10.= _Am. Gard._ =13=:700.
    1892. =11.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:3, 24. 1894. =12.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =32=:488 fig., 489. 1894. =13.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =106=:53. 1896. =14.= _Ala. Col. Sta. Bul._ =85=:447. 1897.
    =15.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 41. 1899. =16.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    137. 1901. =17.= _N. C. Sta. Bul._ =184=:120. 1903. =18.= _Ga.
    Sta. Bul._ =68=:15, 31. 1905.

    _Botankin_ 7. Botankin 3. _Hattankio_ 7. Kelsey’s Japan 2, 3,
    5. _Sinomo_ 7. _Togari_ 7.

Kelsey is distinguished as the largest, the latest and the tenderest
to cold of all Triflora plums in America. The variety is not much
hardier than the fig and cannot be safely planted north of Washington
and Baltimore. The tree is vigorous, well formed and productive, having
for its worst fault susceptibility to shot-hole fungus. The plums are
large, very attractive in color and the flesh is firm, the plums being
well fitted for shipping, with a rich, pleasant, aromatic flavor making
the fruit very good in quality. In the South both curculio and brown-rot
attack the fruits rather badly. It is unfortunate that this plum cannot
be grown in this latitude.

Kelsey, the first of the Triflora plums introduced into America, was
brought into the country by a Mr. Hough of Vacaville, California, in
1870, through the United States consul in Japan. John Kelsey of Berkeley,
California, obtained trees from Hough and propagated it in his nursery
to a limited extent. The first fruit was shown by Kelsey in 1877, though
fruit is said to have been produced in 1876. In 1883, W. P. Hammon and
Company, Oakland, California, secured stock of this plum from the heirs
of Mr. Kelsey and the following year extensive sales were made. The plum
was named in honor of the man who did most to bring it before the public.
The American Pomological Society added the Kelsey to its fruit catalog
list in 1889. The following description is compiled.

    Tree vigorous, upright, vasiform, tender, productive, an early
    and regular bearer; leaves somewhat scant, small, lanceolate,
    narrow; blooming season early; fruit very late, season long;
    keeps and ships unusually well; large, cordate, conical, halves
    unequal; suture variable in depth; apex pointed; color rather
    unattractive yellow, tinged and splashed with red, often
    overspread with purple, with attractive bloom, more or less
    marked with conspicuous dots; stem sometimes adhering poorly
    to the fruit; skin tender; flesh delicate yellow, juicy, firm
    and meaty, rich, pleasant, aromatic; good to very good; stone
    clinging unless well ripened, small, in an irregular cavity
    larger than the pit.


KERR

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 52. 1889. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =12=:307,
    501. 1891. =3.= _Ibid._ =13=:700. 1892. =4.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.
    =5.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:25. 1894. =6.= _Ga. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 95. 1895. =7.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =85=:443. 1897. =8.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 41. 1899. =9.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:136.
    1899. =10.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 137. 1901. =11.= _Ga. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ XIII. 1904. =12.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.

    Hattankio 1. _Hattankio_ 7. Hattankin No. 2. 2, 3. _Hattonkin
    No._ 2. 4, 5, 10. _Hattonkin_ 9. _Hattankio No._ 2. 6, 11.
    _Hattankio Oblong_ 9, 11. Hattankio 10. _Hattan_ 10. _Hytankio_
    10. _Hytan-Kayo_ 10.

Kerr is about the best of the yellow Trifloras and is one of the best
of all early plums of its species. It is very productive, sometimes
over-bearing, and should always be thinned. The quality of the plums
is good and the fruits are attractive in appearance. The faults of
the variety are that the fruits drop as they ripen, though they color
if picked green, and in some localities the tree-characters are poor.
This variety was imported from Japan by Frost and Burgess, Riverside,
California, and was distributed under the group name Hattankio No. 2
or Hattonkin No. 2. As Georgeson was also distributed under the same
name, though under a different number, confusion resulted. To better
distinguish between the two, L. H. Bailey, in 1894, named Hattonkin No.
2 Kerr, in honor of J. W. Kerr, the noted plum specialist, of Denton,
Maryland. In 1899 the variety was placed on the fruit catalog list of the
American Pomological Society. The following description is compiled.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright, very productive; leaves large,
    thick; blooming season late. Fruit early; of medium size unless
    thinned, when it becomes large, variable in form, but usually
    heart-shaped, yellow with thin bloom; skin thick; flesh yellow,
    firm, subacid, sweet; fair to good; stone clinging, of medium
    size, oval, turgid.


KING DAMSON

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Watkins _Nur. Cat._ 48. 1892?. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =14=:146,
    147. 1893. =3.= _Garden_ =53=:265. 1898. =4.= _Can. Exp. Farm
    Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:51. 1900. =5.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_
    =4=:161. 1901.

    Bradley’s King 5. Bradley’s King of Damsons 3. King of Damsons
    1, 2.

The fruit of King Damson runs large for a Damson and the flavor is
agreeable, so agreeable that the variety is really a very good dessert
fruit late in the season. This Damson is little grown in America and
deserves much wider cultivation. A peculiarity of the plum is that there
is always more or less doubling of the petals. Very little is known
regarding the history of this excellent variety, but it seems probable
that it originated in Kent, England, where it is much grown.

    Tree small, lacking in vigor, upright-spreading, dense-topped,
    usually productive; branchlets slender, pubescent; leaves
    folded upward, oval or slightly obovate, one inch wide, two
    and three-quarters inches long; margin serrate, usually with
    small dark glands; petiole with one or two glands on the
    stalk; blooming season intermediate, short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, usually with more than five petals, one inch
    across, white with a yellow tinge at the apex; borne on lateral
    spurs or from lateral buds, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit late, season long; one and one-eighth inches by
    seven-eighths inch in size, oval, slightly necked, black, with
    thick bloom; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, firm, sprightly,
    becoming sweet late in the season; of good quality; stone
    clinging, five-eighths inch by three-eighths inch in size,
    irregular-ovate, slightly necked.


KIRKE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Pom. Mag._ =3=:111, Pl. 1830. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc.
    Cat._ 149. 1831. =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 263. 1832. =4.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 306. 1845. =5.= Floy-Lindley _Guide
    Orch. Gard._ 281, 382. 1846. =6.= _Mag. Hort._ =15=:488 fig.
    43. 1849. =7.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 518, Pl. 1. 1859. =8.=
    Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:15, fig. 8. 1866-73. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 36. 1875. =10.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 26. 1871. =11.=
    _Flor. & Pom._ 47. 1876. =12.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
    430. 1881. =13.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ 16, Pl. IV. 1882. =14.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 708. 1884. =15.= _Guide Prat._ 154, 358.
    1895. =16.= _Gard. Chron._ =24=:19. 1898. =17.= Gaucher _Pom.
    Prak. Obst._ No. 96, Col. Pl. 1894. =18.= _Rev. Hort._ 500.
    1898. =19.= _Soc. Nat. Hort. France Pom._ 536. 1904.

    _De Kirke_ 15. Kirke’s 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 14, 17. _Kirke’s_ 8,
    10, 15, 17. Kirke’s Pflaume 12, 13. _Kirke’s Pflaume_ 8, 10,
    15, 17. Kirke’s Plum 1, 5, 8, 10, 11, 16, 18. Kirk’s Plum 3,
    5. _Kirke_ 17. _Kirke’s Plum_ 15, 17, 19. Prune de Kirke 18.
    _Prune de Kirke_ 8, 10, 17. _Prune Kirke_ 19.

All English descriptions of this variety rank it very high both as a
dessert and a culinary plum. The variety stands well among the purple
plums growing on the grounds of this Station, but since it has been grown
in America eighty years, attaining a reputation only of being mediocre in
most characters, it is probably not worth planting largely. It has many
more worthy competitors in its class and season. Hogg, in the reference
given, says the variety was introduced by Joseph Kirke, a nurseryman
at Brompton, near London, who, he says, “told me he first saw it on a
fruit stall near the Royal Exchange, and that he afterwards found the
trees producing the fruit were in Norfolk, whence he obtained grafts and
propagated it. But its true origin was in the grounds of Mr. Poupart, a
market gardener at Brompton, on the spot now occupied by the lower end
of Queen’s Gate and where it sprung up as a sucker from a tree which had
been planted to screen an outbuilding. It was given to Mr. Kirke to be
propagated and he sold it under the name it now bears.” The variety was
introduced into America between 1830 and 1840. The American Pomological
Society placed Kirke upon its list of rejected fruits in 1858, added it
to the recommended list in 1875, and displaced it in 1899.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, productive;
    branchlets with long internodes, dull, marked with
    yellowish-brown scarf-skin; leaf-buds large, long, pointed,
    free; leaves flattened, obovate or oval, one and three-quarters
    inches wide, three and five-eighths inches long, thick, dark
    green; margin crenate, eglandular or with small, dark glands;
    petiole one inch long, tinged red, glandless or with from
    one to four small, yellowish-green glands; blooming season
    intermediate, short; flowers appearing after the leaves, one
    inch across; borne on lateral spurs, singly or in pairs;
    filaments seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, shorter
    than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; about one and
    five-eighths inches in diameter, roundish-ovate, dark
    purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; flesh
    greenish-yellow, fibrous, firm, sweet, mild and pleasant; good
    to very good; stone nearly free, one inch by three-quarters
    inch in size, ovate or oval, flattened, roughened and deeply
    pitted, tapering abruptly to a short, pointed apex; ventral
    suture narrow, with a short but distinct wing; dorsal suture
    with a wide groove.


LAFAYETTE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:96. 1832. =2.= Tucker’s _Gen.
    Farmer_ =3=:153. 1839. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 427. 1854. =4.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 222, 244. 1858. =5.= Hogg _Fruit Man._
    368. 1866. =6.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 916. 1869. =7.= _Guide
    Prat._ 160, 359. 1895.

    Gifford’s Lafayette 1, 4, 6. Gifford’s La Fayette 2, 3.

Lafayette originated in New York sometime in the first quarter of the
last century with a Mr. Gifford from a stone of the Orleans. It did not
become popular and was rejected by the American Pomological Society in
1858, but just why it failed is not apparent, judging either from the
descriptions given in the above references or by its behavior in the
orchard at this Station. The fruit is good, though not remarkable for
the richness of its flavor, its size is large and the color attractive.
Moreover it is so late as to stand almost alone in its season. A
retrial of this old sort commercially might be worth while. The tree is
interesting because of a marked tendency in the flowers to develop petals
from the stamens.

    Tree of medium size, round-topped, productive; branchlets
    stocky, with long internodes; leaf-scars large; leaves folded
    upward, oval or obovate, two inches wide, four inches long,
    rugose; margin crenate, with small, dark glands; petiole
    pubescent, tinged red, having at the most three small glands
    usually on the stalk; blooming season intermediate in time and
    length; flowers appearing after the leaves, one and one-quarter
    inches wide, creamy-white; borne in pairs; calyx-lobes long and
    slender.

    Fruit very late, season long; one and one-half inches by
    one and three-eighths inches in size, oval, purplish-black,
    overspread with very thick bloom; flesh greenish-yellow, medium
    juicy, tender, sweet, mild and pleasant; of good quality; stone
    free or nearly so, one inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    irregular-oval, flattened, with an acute and slightly oblique
    apex.


LAIRE

_Prunus orthosepala?_

Laire is cultivated locally in Rooks and neighboring counties in Kansas
and is highly spoken of by those who grow it. The description of the
variety is made from information sent from the United States Department
of Agriculture. For a further account of this plum the reader is referred
to the discussion of _Prunus orthosepala_, page 97. The name is derived
from that of the man who first brought the plums under cultivation some
twenty or twenty-five years ago.

    Tree dwarfish, dense-topped, not very productive; branches
    spiny, zigzag; branchlets thick, reddish-brown changing to
    dark brown; leaves oblong-ovate, light green, acuminate, with
    margins closely serrate and seldom with glandular teeth;
    petiole slender, one-half inch long, with two glands at the
    apex; flowers white or tinged with pink, appearing after the
    leaves; borne in threes or in fours; pedicels thick, one-half
    inch long; petals narrowly clawed; stamens orange.

    Fruit mid-season; one and one-eighth inches in diameter,
    roundish, greenish-yellow overlaid with deep red, covered with
    thick bloom; skin thick; flesh yellow, meaty, juicy, mild
    subacid; good to very good; stone clinging, five-eighths inch
    by nine-sixteenths inch in size, flattened, oval, with rugose
    surfaces; grooved on the dorsal and ridged on the ventral
    suture.


LARGE ENGLISH

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 443. 1881. =2.= Mathieu
    _Nom. Pom._ 429, 433. 1889.

    Englische Zwetsche 2. _Grosse Englische Zwetsche_ 2. Grosse
    Englische Zwetsche 1, 2. _Grosse Englische Pflaumen Zwetsche_
    2. _Grosse Zwetsche?_ 2. _Schweizer Zwetsche_ 2 incor.

This appears to be a most excellent plum closely resembling the Italian
Prune and surpassing that well-known variety in some respects. As
compared with Italian Prune, the fruit of Large English runs larger,
is slightly more conical, having the ventral swelling near the base,
thus giving it more of a shoulder. The flavor is sweeter and richer than
that of the Italian Prune. There appear to be practically no differences
between the trees, the foliage and the flowers of the two kinds. Wherever
the Italian is successfully grown it may be well worth while to try
the Large English. The relation the word English has to this prune is
unknown. Oberdieck, in 1881, wrote that this variety resembled the
Italian Prune in fruit, but differed in that it had a noticeably broader
leaf; he adds “it has been incorrectly called the Swiss Prune and is much
spread in Germany under the name of Italian Prune.” E. R. Lake, of the
United States Department of Agriculture, brought it to America, in 1901,
from the Pomological Institute, Reutlingen, Wurtemburg, Germany. Lake’s
stock was tested at this Station and the variety agrees with Oberdieck’s
description.

    Tree of average size, vigorous, upright-spreading,
    dense-topped, productive; branchlets with, long internodes;
    leaf-scars enlarged; leaves folded upward, oval or obovate,
    nearly one and three-quarters inches wide, three and one-half
    inches long, thick, rugose; margin crenate or almost serrate,
    eglandular or with small dark glands; petiole pubescent, tinged
    red, with from two to four globose glands; blooming season
    intermediate in time, short; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one inch across; petals long, narrow, white, in the
    buds tipped with yellow; borne singly or in pairs; stamens tend
    to become petals.

    Fruit late, season of medium length; one and three-quarters
    inches by one and one-half inches in size, long-ovate,
    purplish-black, with thick bloom; dots numerous, conspicuous;
    flesh yellowish with a trace of red at full maturity at both
    skin and stone, juicy, very sweet, aromatic, with a pleasant
    flavor; very good to best; stone free, the cavity larger than
    the pit, often brownish-red, one inch by five-eighths inch in
    size, irregular-oval, flattened, with an oblique apex; ventral
    suture prominent, usually with a distinct wing; dorsal suture
    with a wide, deep groove.


LATE MIRABELLE

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 150. 1831. =2.= Barry _Fr. Garden_
    339. 1851. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 388. 1857. =4.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 353. 1866. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees. Am._ 901.
    1869. =6.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 20. 1871. =7.= Mas _Le
    Verger_ =6=:7. 1866-73. =8.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 352.
    1887. =9.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 442, 449. 1889. =10.= _Guide
    Prat._ 162, 360. 1895. =11.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 493. 1908.

    _Bricette_ 9. Bricetta 5. _Bricet_ 5, 9. _Bricette_ 6, 8, 10.
    _Brisette_ 6, 7, 10. Bricette 4. _Die Brisette_ 9. _Kleine
    Brisette_ 9. _La Bricette_ 9. Mirabelle Tardive 1, 3, 6, 7, 8,
    10, 11. _Mirabelle Tardive_ 4, 5, 6, 9. Mirabelle d’Octobre
    2. _Mirabelle d’Octobre_ 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10. October Mirabelle
    9. _Petit Bricette_ 5, 9. _Petite Bricette_ 4, 6, 10. Runde
    Brisette 9. _Späte Mirabelle_ 6, 8, 9, 10.

In France, where all of the Mirabelles are highly esteemed, the
Late Mirabelle is much grown because of its season. The variety is
practically unknown in America, but, judging from its behavior at
Geneva, well deserves widespread trial, as do all the Mirabelles. The
history of this variety is unknown other than that it is an old sort,
having been mentioned in the London Horticultural Society catalog as
long ago as 1831. In 1851, Barry, of Rochester, New York, described the
Mirabelle d’Octobre, which is identical with Late Mirabelle, and said
that it had been recently introduced from France.

    Tree medium in size and vigor, very hardy, productive; branches
    smooth; leaves small, oval, one and one-quarter inches wide,
    two inches long; margin finely serrate, with few, dark glands;
    petiole slender, glandless or with one or two glands at the
    base of the leaf.

    Fruit late; small, roundish-oval, greenish-yellow, often with
    a light blush on the sunny side, covered with thin bloom; stem
    short, slender; flesh yellow, very juicy, aromatic, sweet;
    good; stone semi-free.


LATE MUSCATELLE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 470. 1894. =2.= _Can. Exp.
    Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:53. 1900. =3.= _U. S. D. A. Div. Pom.
    Bul._ =10=:22. 1901.

    Late Muscatel 2. Späte Muskateller 3. Späte Muskatellerpflaume
    1.

This variety was obtained by the United States Department of Agriculture
from the Pomological Institute at Reutlingen, Germany, in 1900, and
was soon after sent to this Station to test. In some respects, in
fruit-characters in particular, the variety is promising, but not
sufficiently so to recommend it to fruit-growers, even for trial.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, productive;
    branchlets thick; with short internodes, pubescent; leaf-scars
    prominent; leaves drooping, folded upward, obovate, one and
    five-eighths inches wide, three and three-eighths inches long,
    leathery; margin crenate, eglandular or with few, small, dark
    glands; petiole thick, pubescent, glandless or with from one
    to three glands; blooming season intermediate in time; and
    length; flowers appearing after the leaves, one inch across;
    borne in scattering clusters, singly or in pairs; petals white,
    creamy-white as they open; anthers tinged red.

    Fruit late, season short; medium in size, roundish, slightly
    truncate, purplish-brown, splashed and mottled with
    russet about the base, overspread with thick bloom; flesh
    greenish-yellow, sweet; good to very good; stone often reddish,
    clinging, three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size,
    somewhat flat, irregular-oval, with slightly pitted surfaces.


LATE ORLEANS

[Illustration: LATE ORLEANS]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 151. 1831. =2.= _Mag. Hort._ 164.
    1843. =3.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =15=:301. 1868. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 927. 1869. =5.= _Guide Prat._ 161, 360. 1895.
    =6.= _Garden_ =49=:268. 1896. =7.= Rivers _Cat._ 33. 1898.

    _Black Orleans_ 1, 2, 5. Late Black Orleans 3, 4. _Late Black
    Orleans_ 5. _Late Orleans_ 5. Monsieur Noir Tardif 5. _Orleans
    Late Black_ 5.

This is another variety having only a European reputation to recommend it
in America. The fruits of Late Orleans are handsome in color and shape,
but are not large enough to enable them to compete in the markets with
other late purple plums and are so poor in quality as to be worthless as
dessert fruits. In Europe the variety is rated high for culinary purposes
and fruit-growers there like it because it hangs well to the tree and
keeps and ships well. The trees are very satisfactory in practically all
respects. It is doubtful if the variety is worth further trial in America.

Late Orleans was mentioned in the catalog of the Horticultural Society
of London in 1831, but was not described. No account seems to have ever
been published of its origin, but it is probably related to or descended
from the Orleans since they are very similar in tree and shape of fruit,
differing only in size and color of fruit.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, hardy, very productive;
    branches smooth, dark ash-gray, with numerous, small
    lenticels; branchlets medium to slender, with long internodes,
    greenish-red changing to dull reddish-brown, dull, pubescent,
    marked with gray scarf-skin and with small lenticels; leaf-buds
    intermediate in size and length, conical, appressed.

    Leaves flattened, oval or obovate, one and one-quarter inches
    wide, two and one-quarter inches long; upper surface sparingly
    pubescent, with a deeply grooved midrib; lower surface heavily
    pubescent along the midrib; apex abruptly pointed, base broadly
    cuneate, margin finely crenate, with small, dark glands;
    petiole one-half inch long, slender, pubescent, faintly tinged
    with red, glandless or with from one to four small, globose,
    yellowish glands usually on the stalk.

    Flowers appearing after the leaves, one inch across, white;
    borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in pairs;
    pedicels one-half inch long, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube,
    green, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse, pubescent,
    glandular-serrate and with marginal hairs, erect; petals
    roundish or broadly ovate, entire, short-clawed; anthers yellow
    with a reddish tinge; filaments five-sixteenths inch long;
    pistil glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit late, season long; about one and one-half inches in
    diameter, roundish, slightly compressed, halves equal; cavity
    shallow, narrow, flaring; suture a line; apex roundish;
    color dark purple, overspread with thick bloom; dots few,
    reddish-brown; stem three-quarters inch long, pubescent at
    the base, adhering well to the fruit; skin toughish, slightly
    astringent, separating readily; flesh golden-yellow, dry,
    tender, sweet, mild; fair in quality; stone clinging, one
    inch by five-eighths inch in size, oval, flattened, slightly
    roughened, blunt at the base and apex; ventral suture rather
    narrow, blunt; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


LAWRENCE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Cultivator_ =10=:167. 1843. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
    54. 1852. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 412. 1854. =4.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 928. 1869. =5.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 29. 1871.
    =6.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:75. 1866-73. =7.= Hogg _Fruit Man._
    710. 1884. =8.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 349. 1887. =9.= _Guide
    Prat._ 364. 1895. =10.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 112. 1901.

    _Favorite de Lawrence_ 6, 9. _Lawrence Favorite_ 5. _Lawrences
    Reine Claude_ 9. Lawrence’s Favorite 1, 2, 3, 4, 7. _Lawrence’s
    Gage_ 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9. _Lawrence’s Favorite_ 6, 8, 9, 10.
    Lawrence Gage 8. Prune Lawrence Gage 5. Reine-Claude de
    Lawrence 6, 9. _Reine-Claude de Lawrence_ 4, 5, 8.

This variety is surpassed in the quality of its fruits by few plums.
The trees bear young and abundantly and the fruit hangs well on the
tree; unfortunately, the plums do not ship nor keep well and the variety
thus fails as a market sort. It is, however, a delicious dessert fruit,
deserving to be grown in every plum connoisseur’s garden. Lawrence is a
seedling of Reine Claude, and was grown by L. V. Lawrence of Hudson, New
York, some time during the second quarter of the last century. As its
large size and superior quality became known its popularity increased,
until it was cultivated not only in America, but to some extent
throughout western Europe. During the last twenty-five years, however,
it has waned in popularity, having been superseded by better commercial
varieties, though it still ranks high as a dessert plum. The American
Pomological Society placed Lawrence in its catalog in 1852, and retained
it there until 1899.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, productive; trunk
    and branches rough, with large lenticels; branchlets brash,
    dark reddish-brown, pubescent; leaves folded upward, oval,
    two inches wide, three and three-quarters inches long, thick,
    leathery, rugose; margin doubly serrate, with small glands;
    petiole pubescent, usually with two small glands.

    Fruit medium early; one and three-eighths inches in diameter,
    roundish, greenish-yellow, covered with thin bloom; skin thin,
    tender, slightly astringent; flesh yellowish, fibrous, tender,
    sweet, aromatic; very good; stone free, seven-eighths inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, oval, turgid, nearly smooth.


LINCOLN

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Lovett _Cat._ fig. 44. 1890-1900. =2.= _Rural N. Y._
    =56=:595 fig. 253, 598. 1897. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242,
    246. 1899. =4.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:159. 1899. =5.= _Can.
    Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:53. 1900. =6.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    114. 1901. =7.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 317, 318 fig.
    1903. =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 254. 1903. =9.= _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =162=:236, 238 fig., 256, 257. 1905. =10.= _Mass. Sta.
    An. Rpt._ =17=:159. 1905.

Lincoln has never been popular in New York, but in Pennsylvania and New
Jersey it is well thought of for home use and the markets. The trees in
this State grow slowly and when fully grown are rather inferior. This is
one of the sorts recommended to be top-worked on better growing varieties
but, as has been said before in these notes, top-working in New York is
far more often a failure than a success with plums. The fruit of this
variety is unusually attractive in size and color and for quality it may
be named among the best of the red plums. Unfortunately, the variety
is readily infected by the brown-rot which when epidemic cannot be
controlled. Lincoln has been so well tested in New York without becoming
popular with plum-growers that it is hardly worth recommending for
further trial, though the fruits in particular have much merit.

This plum originated in York County, Pennsylvania, about forty-five
years ago, supposedly from seed of the Reine Claude, and was named
after Abraham Lincoln. If it be a Reine Claude seedling it comes from
a cross with some other variety, since it shows many characters not in
Reine Claude. Lincoln was introduced by J. T. Lovett and Company, Little
Silver, New Jersey.

    Tree of medium size, vigorous, upright-spreading, but somewhat
    variable in habit, dense-topped, hardy, productive; branches
    ash-gray, rough; branchlets somewhat slender, short, with
    long internodes, greenish-red changing to brownish-red, dull,
    sparingly pubescent throughout the season, overspread with thin
    bloom, with small, inconspicuous lenticels; leaf-buds large,
    long, pointed, free; leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves somewhat folded backward, oval or obovate, two inches
    wide, four inches long, rather stiff; upper surface slightly
    rugose, pubescent only in the shallow, grooved midrib; lower
    surface silvery-green, pubescent; apex abruptly pointed, base
    acute, margin doubly crenate, with small, dark glands; petiole
    nearly one inch long, pubescent, reddish, with from one to four
    rather large, globose or reniform, yellowish glands variable in
    position.

    Season of bloom medium; flowers appearing after the leaves,
    over one inch across, white; borne on lateral spurs and buds,
    singly or in pairs; pedicels about seven-eighths inch long,
    slender, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    thinly pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, acute, somewhat pubescent
    on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, with marginal hairs,
    reflexed; petals oval, crenate, with claws of medium width;
    anthers yellow; filaments three-eighths inch or more in length;
    pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit early, season short; somewhat variable but averaging
    about two inches by one and five-eighths inches in size,
    oblong-oval, slightly necked, halves usually equal; cavity
    very shallow, narrow, abrupt; suture shallow; apex roundish
    or depressed; color light or dark red over a yellow ground,
    overspread with thin bloom; dots numerous, small, light
    russet; stem one inch long, lightly pubescent, adhering poorly
    to the fruit; skin thick, rather sour, separating readily;
    flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, coarse and fibrous, firm but
    tender, sweet, mild, pleasant; good to very good; stone nearly
    free, one and one-eighth inches by five-eighths inch in size,
    long-oval, flattened, necked at the base, blunt at the apex,
    with markedly rough and deeply pitted surfaces; ventral suture
    narrow, distinctly furrowed, with a short wing; dorsal suture
    with a narrow groove of medium depth.


LOMBARD

[Illustration: LOMBARD]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 268. 1832. =2.= _Ibid._ 224. 1841.
    =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 303 fig. 124. 1845. =4.= Thomas
    _Am. Fruit Cult._ 345 fig. 265. 1849. =5.= Goodrich _N. Fr.
    Cult._ 84. 1849. =6.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 412. 1854. =7.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 190, 210. 1856. =8.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    929 fig. 1869. =9.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:151, fig. 76. 1866-73.
    =10.= _Country Gent._ =48=:981. 1883. =11.= Mathieu _Nom.
    Pom._ 423. 1889. =12.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 359. 1895. =13.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242, 246. 1899. =14.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._
    =46=:279. 1900. =15.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 114 fig. 1901. =16.=
    _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:34. 1903. =17.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =162=:240, 256, 257. 1905.

    _Beekman’s Scarlet_ 3, 6, 8, 11, 12. _Bleecker’s Scarlet_ 3,
    4, 6, 8, 12. _Bleeker’s Scarlet_ 11. Bleeker’s Rotepflaume
    11. _Bleekers Rothe Pflaume_ 12. _Bleeckers Rothe Pflaume_
    9. _Lombard_ 11. _Lombard Plum_ 1. _Montgomery Prune_ 8,
    11. _Prune Rouge De Bleeker_ 9, 11. _Rouge de Bleecker_ 12.
    _Spanish King?_ 14, 15. Variegated Plum 1.

The Lombard plum is known by all. It is not as largely planted in New
York as a few other varieties, but it is probably more widely grown than
any other plum if the whole continent be considered. The preeminently
meritorious characters which enable it to take first place in American
plum-growing are: The elasticity of its constitution whereby it
adapts itself to widely different soils and climates; the robustness,
healthiness, productiveness and regularity in bearing of its trees; the
fact that the fruits are comparatively free from the scourge of the
crescent sign, plum-curculio; and, lastly, its showy fruits tempting
to the eye and readily salable. The tree-characters of Lombard are all
good, making so superior a tree that it, more than any other variety, is
recommended as a stock upon which to graft weak-growing plums. It is a
virile variety and from it have come a considerable number of offspring
mostly from self-fertilized seeds which have given us several nearly
related varieties and strains. There are also a few very good cross-bred
plums of which Lombard was one parent. Lombard would be preeminently the
plum “for the millions” were it not for a fatal fault—it is very poor
in quality. Canned, cooked, preserved or spiced, it does very well, but
as a dessert fruit it falls in a category with the Ben Davis apple and
Kieffer pear, “good-looking but poor.” The variety ripens so early as to
come in direct competition with the peach and this hurts it not a little
as a market plum. To be at its best the crop should be thinned and should
be allowed to ripen fully on the trees. Lombard is now much used in the
canneries in New York and is also planted in home orchards where only
hardy plums stand the climate. In the markets it is usually a low-priced
plum.

Lombard was raised by Judge Platt, Whitesboro, New York, from seed
received from Amsterdam (References, 2). Another writer (References,
10) reports that the trees were brought over from Holland by some of
the earliest Dutch settlers of Utica and Whitesboro. The name was given
to the plum about 1830 by the Massachusetts Horticultural Society in
honor of Daniel Lombard of Springfield, who was the first to propagate
the variety in that state. It was previously well known in New York as
Bleecker’s Scarlet (References, 3), but was never formally described
under that name which must, therefore, though the older, be discarded. In
1856, it was placed on the recommended list by the American Pomological
Society. Several varieties, as Communia, Tatge, Spanish King and Odell,
are very similar, if not identical to the Lombard and, consequently,
have caused much confusion in the nomenclature of the variety. This
similarity is probably explained by the fact that the Lombard produces
seedlings very nearly true to type. Professor J. L. Budd, in a letter
written in 1898 to this Station, says, “The fruit of Communia is much
like that of Lombard, but this can be said of a hundred or more east
European varieties.” Professor Budd had traveled much in Europe and knew
plums very well. His statement, therefore, is entitled to credence and
indicates, together with other circumstances, that Lombard is one of an
old group of plums the varieties of which are very similar.

    Tree of medium size, round-topped, very hardy, productive;
    branches stocky, dark ash-gray, smooth, with few, small
    lenticels; branchlets thick, medium to long, with long
    internodes, greenish-red changing to dull brownish-red,
    marked with gray scarf-skin, glabrous early in the season,
    becoming pubescent at maturity, with a few, inconspicuous,
    small lenticels; leaf-buds of medium size and length, conical,
    appressed; leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves long-oval or long-obovate, one and five-eighths inches
    wide, three and one-half inches long, medium to thick; upper
    surface dark green, thinly pubescent, with a grooved midrib;
    lower surface silvery-green, lightly pubescent; apex acute,
    base somewhat tapering, margin often doubly serrate, eglandular
    or with small, dark glands; petiole one-half inch long, thick,
    tinged red, pubescent, glandless or with one or two globose,
    yellowish-green glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season short; flowers appearing after the leaves,
    one inch across, the buds creamy-yellow, changing to white on
    expanding; borne in clusters on short, lateral spurs, singly or
    in pairs; pedicels nine-sixteenths inch long, slender, nearly
    glabrous; calyx-tube greenish, campanulate, pubescent only
    at the base; calyx-lobes obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate, strongly reflexed; petals oval, entire or
    occasionally notched at the apex, short-clawed; anthers yellow;
    filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil pubescent only on
    the ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; one and three-quarters
    inches by one and five-eighths inches in size, oval or
    roundish-oval, slightly compressed, halves unequal; cavity
    narrow, abrupt, roundish; suture usually a line; apex roundish
    or flattened; color light to dark purplish-red, overspread
    with thick bloom; dots numerous, small, light russet; stem
    slender, three-quarters inch long, adhering well to the fruit;
    skin thin, tender, separating readily; flesh yellowish, juicy,
    slightly fibrous, firm and sweet, mild; inferior in quality;
    stone semi-free to free, one inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    dark colored, oval, flattened, roughened; base and apex acute;
    ventral suture slightly furrowed, acute; dorsal suture widely
    and rather deeply grooved.


LONG FRUIT

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= Wild Bros. _Cat._ 27. 1892. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =62=:26. 1894. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897-99. =4.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 138. 1901.

    Long Fruited 1.

Long Fruit is noted among the leading varieties of plums in _The Plums
of New York_ chiefly to condemn it. On the grounds of this Station and
elsewhere in New York where tested, the trees are unproductive, the crop
drops badly and the fruits are small and poor in quality. The variety was
imported from Japan in 1885 by Luther Burbank.

    Tree large, vigorous, vasiform to spreading, unproductive;
    branches roughened by numerous raised lenticels; branchlets
    slender, with short internodes, glabrous, marked by scarf-skin;
    leaves oblanceolate, somewhat peach-like, one inch wide,
    two and one-half inches long, thin; margin finely crenate,
    with small, amber glands; petiole slender, tinged with red,
    glandless or with from one to five small glands usually on
    the stalk; blooming season early; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, seven-eighths inch across; borne singly or in pairs;
    calyx-tube much swollen at the base.

    Fruit early; one inch by one and one-eighth inches in size,
    roundish-oblate; cavity deep; color dark red over a yellow
    ground, covered with thin bloom; stem slender, adhering
    poorly to the fruit; skin thick, somewhat astringent; flesh
    greenish-yellow or pale yellow, tender, sweet, mild; poor
    in quality; stone semi-clinging, small, one-half inch by
    three-eighths inch in size, roundish-oval, turgid, blunt at the
    base, the apex terminating abruptly in a small, sharp point,
    with smooth surfaces.


LUCOMBE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Pom. Mag._ =3=:99. 1830. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    281. 1845. =3.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 284, 383.
    1846. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 222. 1858. =5.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 711. 1884. =6.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 358. 1895. =7.= Waugh
    _Plum Cult._ 117. 1901. =8.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 320.
    1903.

    Incomparable de Lucombe 6. Lucombe’s Nonesuch 2, 3, 5.
    Lucombe’s Nonsuch 1, 4. _Lucombe’s Nonsuch_ 6, 7. _Lucombe’s
    Unvergleichliche_ 6. _Lucombe’s Nonesuch_ 8. Luccombe’s
    Nonesuch 3. Nonsuch 7. Nonesuch 8.

This old plum has a reputation of high excellence and is well entitled to
it. Despite the fact that it must compete for favor with such estimable
plums as Reine Claude, Washington and Hand, belonging to the same group
with these, it is still much grown in England and is well thought of for
home use in America. Hardly in accordance with its reputation, it was
rejected by the American Pomological Society in 1858 for a place in its
list of fruits. Lucombe originated as a seedling about 1825 with a Mr.
Lucombe of Lucombe, Prince and Company, nurserymen, at Exeter, England,
and was first described by Lindley in 1830 in the _Pomological Magazine_.

    Tree large, of medium vigor, upright-spreading, productive;
    branches covered with numerous fruit-spurs; twigs very short,
    with heavy pubescence; leaves one and three-quarters inches
    wide, three and one-quarter inches long, dark green; margin
    finely serrate or crenate, with small, dark glands; petiole
    pubescent, glandless or with one or two small glands usually
    at the base of the leaf; blooming season intermediate, short;
    flowers appearing after the leaves; petals with a yellowish
    tinge as the buds unfold; borne on long naked spurs with tufts
    of leaves and flowers at the ends, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit mid-season, period of ripening long; one and
    three-eighths inches by one and one-half inches in size,
    roundish-oblate or roundish-obovate, greenish-yellow, becoming
    golden-yellow, indistinctly splashed and streaked with green,
    covered with thin bloom; flesh golden-yellow, firm, sweet,
    pleasant, mild; very good; stone free, three-quarters inch by
    five-eighths inch in size, roundish, slightly necked, with
    pitted surfaces.


MAQUOKETA

[Illustration: MAQUOKETA]

_Prunus hortulana mineri_

    =1.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 290. 1889. =2.= _Ia. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 55, 85. 1890. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:40. 1892.
    =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:53. 1895. =5.= _Ibid._ =123=:20.
    1895. =6.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =31=:346. 1895. =7.= _Wis. Sta.
    Bul._ =63=:46. 1897. =8.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 298.
    1903. =9.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:277. 1904. =10.= _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.

Maquoketa is distinguished as one of the best of the native plums for
culinary purposes. Nearly all of the plums brought in from the wild in
America have so much astringency, most of it coming from the skins, that
they are impalatable to some. Now and then a variety is nearly free from
this disagreeable taste and Maquoketa is one of these. The quality, as
a dessert fruit, is very good for a native and the fruits keep and ship
well. In the South the plums are subject to both curculio and brown-rot.
The trees, like those of nearly all of the Miner-like plums, are rather
better formed and more adaptable to orchard conditions than those of
other species. After the Americana and Nigra plums, Maquoketa is one of
the hardiest of our native varieties, growing even in Minnesota. The
variety belongs in the South and Middle West and there are few, if any,
places in New York where it is worth growing.

The origin of this plum is uncertain. It is reported in the references
given as a native found on the banks of the Maquoketa River in eastern
Iowa and also as a Miner seedling grown under cultivation. It has been
known to fruit-growers since about 1889.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, spreading, low-topped, open,
    hardy, variable in productiveness, susceptible to attacks of
    shot-hole fungus, the trunk shaggy; branches slender, rough,
    zigzag, with few thorns, dark, dull ash-gray, with numerous
    lenticels; branchlets slender, long, with internodes of medium
    length, green, changing to dull reddish-brown, glabrous, with
    numerous, conspicuous, small, slightly raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds very small, short, obtuse, appressed.

    Leaves falling early, folded upward, broadly lanceolate,
    peach-like, one and three-quarters inches wide, four and
    one-half inches long; upper surface light green, changing
    to a dull red late in the fall, glossy, glabrous, with a
    narrowly grooved midrib and veins; lower surface silvery-green,
    thinly pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base rather abrupt;
    margin with serrations in two series, with very small, black
    glands; petiole five-eighths inch long, tinged with dull red,
    hairy, with from one to four globose, rather large, dark
    brownish-yellow glands.

    Blooming season late and of medium length; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one inch across, yellowish as the buds begin
    to open, changing to white, with a disagreeable odor; borne in
    clusters on lateral spurs and buds, varying from two to four
    flowers in a cluster; pedicels five-eighths inch long, slender,
    glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green, narrowly campanulate,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, slightly obtuse, nearly glabrous
    on the outer surface, but pubescent within, serrate, with
    dark colored glands and marginal hairs, reflexed; petals
    oval or ovate, with long, tapering claws of medium width,
    sparingly hairy at the base; anthers yellowish; filaments
    seven-sixteenths inch in length; pistil glabrous, slender,
    shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit late, ripening period short; below medium in size, ovate
    or roundish-ovate, halves equal; cavity shallow, rather wide,
    rounded, flaring; suture a distinct line; apex roundish or
    slightly pointed; colors some time before fully ripe becoming
    dark carmine, covered with thin bloom; dots numerous, small
    to medium, light brown, clustered about the apex; stem rather
    slender, glabrous, parting readily; skin thick, tough,
    astringent, semi-adherent, removing a thin layer of pulp when
    detached; flesh deep yellow, juicy, coarse, fibrous, nearly
    melting next to the skin, becoming firmer toward the center,
    sweet at first but astringent near the pit, with a strong
    flavor; inferior in quality; stone adhering, of medium size,
    oval, turgid, bluntly pointed at the base and apex, with
    slightly roughened surfaces; ventral suture acute, ridged;
    dorsal suture a narrow, shallow groove.


MARIANNA

[Illustration: MARIANNA]

_Prunus cerasifera_ × ?

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 28. 1886. =2.= _Gard. Mon._
    =29=:148. 1887. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1889. =4.= _Neb.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 56. 1889. =5.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 63.
    1890. =6.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:66, fig., 71, 83, 86. 1892.
    =7.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:479, 480 fig. 1894. =8.= _Rev.
    Hort._ 278. 1894. =9.= _Rural N. Y._ =54=:600. 1895. =10.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:210. 1898. =11.= Bailey _Ev. Nat.
    Fruits_ 208, 213. 1898. =12.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =13=:336-369.
    1900. =13.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 36, 232. 1901. =14.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =67=:277. 1904. =15.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:67. 1905.

Marianna has little or no value for its fruit. It is illustrated and
discussed at length in _The Plums of New York_ for two reasons. First,
because it has long been an enigma which has baffled both horticulturists
and botanists; second, because it is extensively used as a stock upon
which other kinds of plums are propagated. In 1884, a plum of unknown
species was introduced to the trade. Some said the new variety belonged
to _Prunus cerasifera_ and others that it was an offspring of some native
species. The characters of the first named species are so apparent in
Marianna that all are now agreed that this variety is from either a self
or a cross-fertilized seed of _Prunus cerasifera_; if the latter the
other parent must have been some native species, the particular variety
possibly being Wild Goose, one of the Munsoniana plums. Its behavior on
these grounds, its robustness and semi-sterility and its not fitting
exactly into any known species, mark it as a hybrid. A curious character
peculiar to this variety is that it grows very readily from cuttings and
for this reason it is a cheap stock for plums of all kinds and is used
even for peaches and apricots. Besides rooting readily, the Marianna
does not sprout and may be budded as late or later than the peach. It is
chiefly used in propagation in the South, but, for reasons stated in the
discussion of stocks in Chapter II, the Marianna is not now employed by
nurserymen as largely as formerly, though there are still conditions in
which it is the best of stocks. The tree is a handsome ornamental at any
season of the year and its broad, spreading top makes it a good shade
tree.

Marianna originated as a seedling in a mixed orchard belonging to Charles
G. Fitze, Marianna, Polk County, Texas; its parentage is unknown. The
originator considered it a seedling of Wild Goose, but, it is probably
an offspring of DeCaradeuc and, as stated in the foregoing paragraph,
undoubtedly a hybrid. In 1884, Charles N. Eley, Smith Point, Texas,
introduced the Marianna to fruit-growers; in 1889 it was placed on the
fruit catalog list of the American Pomological Society.

    Tree large, vigorous, broad, spreading, open and flat-topped,
    hardy, unproductive, comparatively free from insects or
    diseases; trunk rough; branches numerous, usually smooth,
    but sometimes roughened by the cracking of the bark, thorny,
    dark ash-gray, with numerous, very large, raised lenticels;
    branchlets slender, twiggy, with internodes of medium length,
    green changing to dull reddish-brown, with gray scarf-skin,
    glabrous, with conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds
    very small and short, obtuse, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, elongated-oval, one and one-eighth
    inches wide, two and five-eighths inches long, thin; upper
    surface smooth, glabrous, with a shallow groove on the midrib;
    lower surface pale green, lightly pubescent along the midrib
    and larger veins; apex and base acute, margin very finely
    serrate, with small, black or amber glands; petiole slender,
    three-quarters inch long, pubescent along one side, usually
    tinged red, glandless or with from one to three very small,
    globose, greenish-brown glands variable in position.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, three-quarters inch across, white;
    borne in clusters on lateral spurs, in twos or in threes;
    pedicels three-eighths inch long, slender, glabrous, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes acute,
    sparingly pubescent, ciliate, erect; petals very small,
    separated from each other, broadly oval, entire, tapering to
    narrow claws; anthers yellowish; filaments three-sixteenths
    inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit early, season of medium length; one and one-eighth
    inches or more in diameter, oval or roundish-oval, often not
    compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt,
    regular; suture a line; apex roundish or blunt-pointed; color
    bright, light red changing to darker red, overspread with
    thin bloom; dots numerous, small, light russet, conspicuous,
    clustered about the apex; stem slender, five-eighths inch
    long, glabrous; skin tough, bitter, inclined to crack under
    unfavorable conditions, parts readily; flesh yellow, tinged
    red under the skin and next to the stone, unusually juicy,
    fibrous, watery and melting, sweet next to the skin, but acid
    near the pit, sprightly; inferior in quality; stone clinging,
    three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size, elongated-oval,
    blunt-pointed, surfaces pitted; ventral suture blunt, wide,
    slightly ridged; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


MARU

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 29. 1886. =2.= _Ibid._ 53, 99.
    1889. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 105, 106. 1891. =4.= _Rev.
    Hort._ 515. 1891. =5.= _Ibid._ 278. 1894. =6.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =62=:26. 1894. =7.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:489. 1899.
    =8.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:57. 1896. =9.= _Rural N. Y._
    =56=:615. 1897. =10.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:143. 1899.
    =11.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242, 249. 1899. =12.= Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 138. 1901. =13.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:9, 31. 1905.

Maru is much in evidence in plum literature, the concensus of opinion
being that it is little short of worthless. Its quality is not high and
it comes in season about with Abundance which surpasses it in nearly all
characters. The variety was introduced by Luther Burbank and is said to
have been imported by him about 1885. In Japan this name is applied to
any round plum, but so far in America it has been restricted to this
variety.

    Tree large, lacking in vigor, broad-vasiform, dense-topped,
    unproductive, somewhat susceptible to attacks of shot-hole
    fungus; trunk and branches rough; branchlets twiggy, marked
    with thin, russety scarf-skin, glabrous, with large, prominent
    lenticels; leaves folded upward, oblanceolate, peach-like,
    thin, one and three-eighths inches wide, three inches long;
    upper surface yellowish-green late in the season; margin very
    finely serrate, with small glands; petiole with from one to six
    glands usually on the stalk; blooming season early; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, three-quarters inch across; borne
    in clusters on lateral spurs, in threes or fours; pistil longer
    than the stamens.

    Fruit early, about one and one-quarter inches in diameter,
    roundish-cordate, dull red, with medium thick bloom; flesh deep
    yellow, tender and melting, sweet next the skin, but slightly
    astringent near the pit; poor in quality; stone clinging,
    five-eighths inch by one-half inch in size, oval or roundish,
    turgid, with rough surfaces.


MAYNARD

_Prunus triflora_ × _Prunus simonii_

    =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:226. 1899. =2.= _Nat. Nur._
    =11=:5. 1903. =3.= _Oregon Nur. Cat._ 24. 1903. =4.= _Can.
    Hort._ =28=:285. 1905.

The habit of the tree of Maynard is commendable and the plums are very
acceptable to those who care for the Triflora fruits. The season follows
Climax, a period when there is a dearth of Triflora plums. Maynard has
been so widely advertised that it is hardly necessary to say that it
is worthy of trial. The variety was first fruited in 1897 by Burbank
after which it was tested by him for five years and was then sold to the
Oregon Nursery Company by whom it was introduced in 1903. It was named
by the originator in honor of Professor T. S. Maynard, then in charge of
horticulture in the Massachusetts Agricultural College.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright, open-topped, productive;
    branchlets thick, dark chestnut-red; leaves obovate, one and
    one-half inches wide, three and one-half inches long, thin;
    margin finely serrate, with small, dark glands; petiole
    slender, glandless or with one or two small glands usually at
    the base of the leaf.

    Fruit early; about one and three-eighths inches in diameter,
    roundish-truncate, dark red, changing to purplish-black,
    overspread with thick bloom; flesh reddish, with a tinge
    of yellow near the pit, fibrous, tender and melting,
    sweet, aromatic; good to very good; stone semi-clinging,
    three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in size, broadly oval,
    turgid, blunt at the base and apex, with pitted surfaces;
    ventral suture prominent, with deep furrows and with a narrow,
    blunt wing; dorsal suture acute or with an indistinct groove.


McLAUGHLIN

[Illustration: McLAUGHLIN]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:195 fig. 54. 1846. =2.= Cole _Am. Fr.
    Book_ 209 fig. 1849. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 332. 1849.
    =4.= _Mag. Hort._ =16=:456, 457 fig. 28. 1850. =5.= Hovey _Fr.
    Am._ =2=:47, Pl. 1851. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 36, 55. 1852.
    =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 231. 1854. =8.= _Cultivator_ =6=:52
    fig. 1858. =9.= _Flor. & Pom._ 200. 1870. =10.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =6=:137, fig. 69. 1866-73. =11.= _Am. Gard._ =14=:299 fig.
    1893. =12.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ 97, Col. Pl. 95. 1894.
    =13.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:189. 1897. =14.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =169=:242, 246. 1899. =15.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 115, 116
    fig. 1901. =16.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =134=:43. 1902. =17.= _Mass.
    Sta. An. Rpt._ =17=:159. 1905.

    M’Laughlin 2. McLaughlin’s Gage Plum 9. MacLaughlin 12.
    _MacLanglin_ 12.

McLaughlin stands well up with the best of plums in quality and when
well grown is very attractive in appearance. Its flesh is sweet and yet
not so sweet as to cloy the appetite; in flavor it is rich and delicate
and while somewhat like that of Reine Claude, is different, so that the
variety has a taste quite of its own; though the juice is abundant, the
flesh is not watery; the texture is neither too coarse nor too fine, too
fibrous nor too mealy, but in a fruit rightly matured is most pleasantly
melting. There are few other plums in which the characters pleasing to
the taste exist in such nice proportions. McLaughlin is a little smaller
than some other plums of its group, but is quite large enough for a
dessert plum. Unless at its best, it is not as attractive in color as
Jefferson, Washington, Reine Claude and some others of its type, but at
its very best, it is unsurpassed by any other plum in coloring; it has in
perfection the delicate yellow skin which belongs to the Reine Claudes
upon which is marbled tints of white, yellow and crimson, the blending
of which the illustration shows but poorly. The fruit of McLaughlin has
its imperfections, however. The flesh clings tenaciously to the stone,
is too melting to keep or ship well and rots badly on the tree. These
defects debar the variety in America, with present market demands, from
commercial plantations. The tree is above the average in size and vigor
and is as hardy as any, more so than most of the Reine Claude varieties.
It comes in bearing early and is rather productive. The place for this
plum, from the summary of its characters, is apparent at once—in the home
orchard and in the collection of the fruit connoisseur.

McLaughlin was raised by James McLaughlin of Bangor, Maine, first
fruiting about 1840. The parentage of the variety is disputed, but no
one doubts that it contains Reine Claude blood, though the tree is too
vigorous to have been raised from the Reine Claude self-pollinated.
Judging from the tree-characters, it may have sprung from the Washington
or Imperial Gage fertilized by the Reine Claude. The American Pomological
Society, in 1852, placed the McLaughlin with the plums that promised
well, and at the next meeting added it to the recommended list.

    Tree of medium size, variable in vigor, spreading, open-topped,
    hardy, medium to productive; branches stocky, ash-gray, smooth,
    with small, indistinct lenticels; branchlets few, thick, short,
    with short internodes, greenish-red changing to brownish-drab,
    lightly pubescent, with numerous, small lenticels; leaf-buds
    above medium in size, long, pointed, appressed; leaf-scars
    swollen.

    Leaves oval, two inches wide, three and one-half inches long,
    thick; upper surface dark green, glossy, covered with fine
    hairs; lower surface pale green, pubescent; apex abruptly
    pointed, base acute, margin crenate, with small, black glands;
    petiole five-eighths inch long, thick, pubescent, tinged red,
    with one or two small, globose, yellowish glands usually at the
    base of the leaf.

    Season of bloom intermediate, short; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, fifteen-sixteenths inch across, white, with yellow
    tinge near the apex of the petals; borne on lateral spurs and
    buds, singly or in pairs; pedicels one-half inch long, thick,
    very pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, obconic, pubescent;
    calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, sparingly pubescent on both
    surfaces, glandular-serrate and with marginal hairs, reflexed;
    petals obovate, crenate, tapering below to short, broad claws;
    anthers yellowish; filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil
    glabrous except at the ovary, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit early, season short; one and five-eighths inches by one
    and seven-eighths inches in size, roundish-oblate, compressed,
    halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt; suture shallow;
    apex flattened or depressed; color greenish-yellow, blushed and
    mottled with red, overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous,
    small, light colored; stem thick, three-quarters inch long,
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit, surrounded at the cavity
    by a fleshy ring; skin tough, slightly adhering; flesh light
    yellow, juicy, sweet, mild and pleasant; very good; stone
    clinging, one inch by three-quarters inch in size, irregular
    broad-oval, very blunt at the base and apex, heavily wrinkled
    and deeply pitted; ventral suture narrow, distinctly furrowed,
    winged; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


MIDDLEBURG

[Illustration: MIDDLEBURG]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =31=:60. 1886. =2.= _Mich.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 288. 1889. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:189.
    1897. =4.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 119. 1898. =5.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =169=:242, 246. 1899. _Ibid._ =187=:77, 79. 1901.

    Middleburgh 1.

It is somewhat remarkable that so good a plum as Middleburg should have
so long escaped the attention of fruit-growers and even of pomologists.
Not even Downing has recorded it, though he lived not more than a hundred
miles from the place of its origin, which must have taken place in his
time. The fruits may be surpassed somewhat by other purple plums in
appearance but few of them are better in quality, either for dessert
or for cooking. It is especially valuable too, because it ripens late,
hangs well to the tree and ships and keeps well, in the latter respect
equalling the best of the prunes. Out of a collection of about three
hundred sorts on the Station grounds, this would undoubtedly be chosen
as the favorite purple plum of its season. The trees, while of only
medium size, are robust, healthy, hardy and usually productive. In
Schoharie County, eastern New York, where this variety originated and
has long been grown, black-knot is usually epidemic and Middleburg and
Palatine are said to be the sorts most free from the disease—so free that
neither is much troubled by it. From its behavior here it is certain
that, belying the looks of either fruit or tree, Middleburg will improve
upon acquaintance and that when well known it will be wanted in home
collections at least and more than likely some commercial fruit-growers
will find it profitable.

Middleburg came from Middleburg, Schoharie County, New York, where it was
found as a chance seedling. Mr. S. D. Willard, of Geneva, first called
attention to the variety in 1886 at a meeting of the Western New York
Horticultural Society. Its origin is much older than the date given, as
it has been extensively grown in Schoharie County for a half-century or
more.

    Tree above medium in size, vigorous, round and open-topped
    hardy, productive; branches ash-gray, smooth, with small
    lenticels; branchlets of medium thickness and length, with
    long internodes, greenish-red, changing to brownish-red,
    overspread with light bloom, dull, somewhat pubescent, with
    few, inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds of medium size
    and length, pointed, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, oval, one and one-half inches wide, three
    and one-half inches long, rather thick, stiff; upper surface
    dark green, sparingly pubescent on the grooved midrib and
    larger veins; lower surface silvery-green, pubescent; apex
    and base acute, margin doubly serrate, with a few, small,
    dark glands; petiole eleven-sixteenths inch long, pubescent,
    tinged red, glandless or with from one to three small, globose,
    greenish-brown glands on the stalk or base of the leaf.

    Blooming season early to medium, short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one inch across, white, borne in
    scattering clusters on lateral spurs, singly or in pairs;
    pedicels three-quarters inch long, overspread with fine,
    short pubescence, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    pubescent at the base; calyx-lobes obtuse, thinly pubescent
    on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, somewhat reflexed;
    petals roundish or obovate, entire, with short, abrupt claws;
    anthers yellowish; filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil
    glabrous, equal to the stamens in length, with a large,
    pubescent ovary.

    Fruit very late, season long; one and five-eighths inches by
    one and one-half inches in size, distinctly oval, compressed,
    halves equal; cavity very shallow, narrow, flattened; suture
    usually lacking; apex roundish; color varies from light to
    deep purplish-red, overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous,
    small, russet, inconspicuous; stem one inch long, thinly
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, slightly
    sour, separating readily; flesh light yellow, rather juicy,
    somewhat coarse, firm, sprightly when first mature, becoming
    sweetish, strongly aromatic, pleasant flavored; very good;
    stone semi-free or free, one inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    irregular-oval, with pitted surfaces, slightly acute at the
    base and apex; ventral suture narrow, winged, faintly ridged;
    dorsal suture acute or with a shallow, narrow groove.


MILLER SUPERB

_Prunus domestica_

Of the two hundred and more varieties of plums which have fruited on the
Station grounds, Miller Superb is one of the finest for dessert. The
variety is of the Reine Claude group and is fully up with the best of
these plums—all noted for high quality. In size and appearance, the plums
resemble those of the well-known Bavay though usually larger. This plum
originated with Colonel Charles Miller of Geneva, New York, when, is not
known. About 1889, M. F. Pierson of Stanley, New York, secured cions of
the plum from Colonel Miller and named the variety Miller Superb. It has
never been introduced and is grown locally only to a very limited extent.
Its large size, productiveness and superior quality should recommend it
strongly for more general cultivation.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    productive; branches rough as they approach the rough trunk;
    leaf-scars enlarged; leaves flattened, oval, two inches wide,
    three and three-quarters inches long; margin serrate or
    crenate, with few, small, dark glands; petiole long, thick,
    reddish, pubescent, with from one to three glands usually
    at the base of the leaf; blooming season of medium length;
    flowers appearing after the leaves, one inch or more across,
    white with yellowish tinge; borne on lateral buds and spurs,
    singly or in pairs.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season; one
    and three-quarters inches by one and five-eighths inches in
    size, roundish-oval or roundish-ovate, golden-yellow, mottled
    and splashed with green and sometimes with a blush on the
    exposed cheek, overspread with thin bloom; dots conspicuous;
    flesh light golden-yellow, juicy, firm but tender, sweet,
    pleasant in flavor; very good; stone clinging or semi-clinging,
    one inch by five-eighths inch in size, ovate or oval, somewhat
    flattened, usually winged; dorsal suture grooved.


MILTON

_Prunus munsoniana_ × ?

    =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 287. 1887. =2.= _Ibid._ 393. 1892.
    =3.= _Ibid._ 334. 1894. =4.= _Neb. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 201. 1897.
    =5.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 48. 1897. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 40. 1899. =7.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:280. 1900. =8.= _Ala.
    Col. Sta. Bul._ =112=:178. 1900. =9.= Terry _Cat._ 6. 1900.
    =10.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 187. 1901. =11.= _Can. Exp. Farm.
    Bul._ =43=:31. 1903. =12.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 445. 1903.
    =13.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:277. 1904. =14.= _Miss. Sta. Bul._
    =93=:15. 1905. =15.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.
    =16.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 420. 1905.

The special merits of Milton, as compared with other native varieties,
are that it blooms late and ripens early. It thus escapes frosts, when,
for example, its parent, Wild Goose, might be injured; and its early
ripening prolongs the season for native plums. The fruits are large,
of very good quality, though a little too juicy for pleasant eating
or to ship well, very attractive in appearance, and, more important
than all else for the regions in which it is likely to be grown, it
is comparatively free from rot. Unfortunately, the flesh clings most
tenaciously to the stone even after cooking. In its fruit-characters,
Milton strongly resembles one of the Mineri plums, but the tree is very
much like that of Wild Goose, its known parent. In New York, Milton is
one of the best of the native plums but it is hardly so considered in
the Middle West, where these plums are most grown, judging from the
discussions of it in the references given above.

Milton, a seedling of Wild Goose grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa,
first fruited in 1885. The originator believed that the other parent was
an Americana, but from the characters of the tree it was more likely one
of the Mineri plums. The American Pomological society added Milton to its
fruit catalog list in 1899.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, round and dense-topped,
    symmetrical, hardy at Geneva, productive, healthy; branches
    brash, rough, thorny, dark brownish-gray, with numerous,
    large, narrow and much elongated lenticels; branchlets very
    slender, willowy, medium to long, with internodes of average
    length, greenish-red, changing to dull reddish-brown, thinly
    pubescent, with numerous, conspicuous, small, slightly raised
    lenticels; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, free.

    Leaves folded upward, broadly lanceolate or oblanceolate,
    peach-like, one inch wide, three inches long, thin; upper
    surface smooth, with a grooved midrib; lower surface thinly
    pubescent on the midrib and larger veins; apex taper-pointed;
    base slightly acute, margin serrate or crenate, with numerous,
    minute, dark glands; petiole seven-sixteenths inch long,
    slender, reddish, lightly pubescent, glandless or with from one
    to four small, globose, yellowish-brown glands usually on the
    stalk.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, three-quarters inch across, the buds creamy when
    opening, changing to white, odor disagreeable; borne in thin
    clusters on lateral spurs and buds, singly, in pairs, or in
    threes; pedicels three-quarters inch long, very slender,
    glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, slightly obtuse, pubescent within, with
    dark colored glands and marginal hairs, erect; petals oval,
    entire or deeply indented, tapering below to long, narrow claws
    margined with few scattering hairs near the base; anthers
    yellow with a faint trace of red; filaments five-sixteenths
    inch long; pistil slender, glabrous, equal to the stamens in
    length.

    Fruit very early, season short; one and three-sixteenths
    inches by one inch in size, oval, slightly compressed, halves
    equal; cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt, regular; suture a
    distinct line; apex roundish or slightly pointed; color dark
    red, covered with thin bloom; dots very numerous, medium to
    large, russet, conspicuous; stem slender, seven-eighths inch
    long, adhering fairly well to the fruit; skin thin, tough,
    astringent, separating readily; flesh yellowish, the juice
    given off readily leaving a tough, fibrous pulp, sweet next
    the skin, but rather acid at the center, of pleasant flavor;
    fair to good; stone adhering, three-quarters inch by one-half
    inch in size, long-oval, slightly elongated at the base and
    apex, somewhat flattened, surface broken into irregular ridges;
    ventral suture blunt, faintly ridged; dorsal suture a narrow,
    shallow groove.


MINER

_Prunus hortulana mineri_

    =1.= _Horticulturist_ =22=:332. 1867. =2.= _Am. Jour. Hort._
    =5=:145. 1869. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 931. 1869. =4.=
    _Ia. Agr. Soc. Rpt._ 332. 1871. =5.= _Gard. Mon._ =13=:347,
    348. 1871. =6.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 152. 1873. =7.= _Ibid._
    90. 1874. =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875. =9.= _Minn.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 81. 1882. =10.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:55,
    56, 58, 81, 86. 1892. =11.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:54. 1895.
    =12.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 359. 1895. =13.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =10=:99, 103. 1897. =14.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 491. 1897.
    =15.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:41. 1898. =16.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    173. 1901. =17.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 208. 1901. =18.= _Ga.
    Sta. Bul._ =67=:278. 1904. =19.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:25, 57
    fig. 1905.

    _Chicasaw Chief_ 4, 10, 14. _General Jackson_ 4, 10, 14.
    _Gillett_ 3, 14. _Hinckley_ 3, 6, 10, 14. Hinckley 5, 7.
    _Isabel_ 3, 14. Minner 12. _Old Hickory_ 4, 10, 14. _Parsons_
    ?10, 14, 16. _Robinson_ 3, 14. _Townsend_ 3, 6, 14. _William
    Dodd_ 4, 10, 14.

Miner has the distinction of being the first of the native plums to be
named and of being the typical plum in the sub-species to which its name
has been given. Though lacking but a few years of having been in the
hands of civilization a century (the Indians from whom it appears to have
been taken had possibly cultivated it longer), Miner is still a standard
variety and while not the best of the group of which it is the type, it
is one of the best. This variety has the further distinction of being,
after Wild Goose, the parent of more cultivated offspring than any other
of our native plums and must be credited with having transmitted its
characters, those of the tree being especially good, to a high degree.
Miner is one of the parents of more than two score of named native
plums in nearly all of which the resemblances to each other and to the
parent are very marked. The variety is not grown, so far as is known,
in New York and the trees on the grounds of this Station not being in
bearing, it was impossible to illustrate the fruit in _The Plums of New
York_ though to do so was greatly desired. In the Middle West, Miner is
probably as widely disseminated and as largely grown as any other plum,
being particularly adapted to the northern limits of the cultivation of
its species. The tree of this variety is robust, healthy, probably better
in habit of growth for orchard management than any other of the native
plums, and usually productive. The fruits are good in quality, attractive
in appearance, comparatively curculio-proof and are especially suited for
culinary uses. The variety is unproductive unless cross-fertilized.

Several accounts are given of the origin of Miner, none of which can be
accurately verified at this late date. When all of the data is compared
and that which is reliable is put together, the history of the variety
runs about as follows: In 1813 William Dodd, an officer under General
Jackson, found this plum growing in a Chicasaw Indian plantation at a
place called Horse Shoe Bend, on the Tallapoosa River, Alabama. The
plums were so attractive in size and excellent in quality that he saved
seeds of the variety and in 1814 planted them in Knox County, Tennessee.
When the trees came in bearing and their merits were discovered, the new
plum was at once in demand and was rather widely distributed in Knox
and neighboring counties under the names “Old Hickory” and “General
Jackson.” In 1823 or 1824, Dodd moved to Springfield, Illinois, taking
sprouts of this plum with him. Dodd’s young trees did not thrive and he
asked a brother in Tennessee who was moving to Illinois, to bring more
sprouts of the new plum. The brother, instead of going to Springfield,
went to Galena, Illinois, taking with him the sprouts of Old Hickory.
These fell into the hands of Judge Hinckley, who distributed them among
his friends, one of whom, a Mr. Townsend, propagated the variety rather
extensively. At Galena, from the circumstances just noted, the variety
was called “Hinckley” and “Townsend.” Meanwhile, the trees which the
first Mr. Dodd had taken to Springfield came into bearing and the variety
was propagated and distributed in the neighborhood as “William Dodd” and
“Chicasaw Chief.” A relative of the Townsends, at Galena, took trees of
this plum to Lancaster, Wisconsin, where they were propagated by a man
named Joel Barber. Barber named the plum after his father-in-law, a Mr.
Miner, and this name, out of the dozen or more that have been given it,
is the one under which the plum is now universally known. During the
process of dissemination the variety received several other local names
as Isabel, Gillett, Robinson and Parsons.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, hardy at Geneva, unproductive
    unless cross-pollinized; branches smooth, reddish-brown,
    thorny; branchlets slender, long, with long internodes,
    greenish-red, changing to brownish-red, glossy, glabrous, with
    numerous, small, grayish lenticels; leaf-buds small, short,
    obtuse, appressed.

    Leaves falling late, long-oval or obovate, peach-like, one
    and five-eighths inches wide, four inches long, thick; upper
    surface roughish, glabrous except for a few hairs on the
    narrowly grooved midrib; lower surface very thinly pubescent;
    apex acuminate, base abrupt and nearly acute, margin serrate,
    with small glands; petiole five-eighths inch long, pubescent
    on the upper surface, often tinged red, with from two to four
    reniform or globose, dark amber glands usually on the stalk.

    Flowers late, often self-sterile, medium to large.

    Fruit somewhat late; medium in size, roundish-ovate or
    roundish-oblong; cavity shallow, narrow, regular; suture
    indistinct; apex pointed; color dull, dark red, appearing some
    time before maturity, covered with thin bloom; dots numerous,
    minute, yellowish, conspicuous at first, becoming duller; stem
    slender, long, adhering strongly to the fruit; skin thick,
    tough, somewhat astringent; flesh pale amber yellow, juicy,
    nearly tender, mild, aromatic; good in quality; stone adhering,
    small to medium, roundish-oval, flattened, pointed at the base
    and apex, with nearly smooth surfaces.


MIRABELLE

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Merlet _Abrege des bons fruits_ 1675. =2.= Rea _Flora_
    207. 1676. =3.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 70. 1699. =4.=
    Langley _Pomona_ 93, Pl. XXIII fig. VIII. 1729. =5.= Miller
    _Gard. Dict._ =3=:1754. =6.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:95,
    Pl. XIV. 1768. =7.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:52, 58. 1771. =8.=
    _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831. =9.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:76. 1832. =10.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846. =11.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 282 fig. 110. 1845. =12.= Thomas _Am.
    Fruit Cult._ 330. 1849. =13.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 518. 1859.
    =14.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 371. 1866. =15.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S.
    =15=:359. 1868. =16.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 14. 1871. =17.= Mas
    _Le Verger_ =6=:13, fig. 7. 1866-73. =18.= Oberdieck _Deut.
    Obst. Sort._ 425. 1881. =19.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431, 432.
    1889. =20.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ 93, Pl. 69. 1894. =21.=
    _Guide Prat._ 163, 361. 1895. =22.= _Garden_ =50=:364. 1896.
    =23.= _U. S. D. A. Div. Pom. Bul._ =10=:11. 1901. =24.= Baltet
    _Cult. Fr._ 489, 492 fig. 326, 503. 1908.

    _Aprikosenartige Mirabelle_ 16, 19, 20, 21. _Damascena
    Armeniacea_ 21. _Damascena Armeniaca_ 19. _Damas Vert_ 7. _De
    Mirabelle_ 21. _Gelbe Mirabelle_ 16, 17, 21. Gelbe Mirabelle
    18, 19, 20. Geperlte Mirabelle 19. Green Damask? 3. _Kleinste
    Mirabelle_ 19. _Kleine Mirabelle_ 19, 20, 21. _La Mirabelle_ 9,
    19, 20, 21. _Lerchenei_ 19, 20. _Little Mirabelle_ 9, 19, 20.
    _Mirababelle_ 20. Mirabel 3. _Mirabelle abricotée_ 16, 19, 20,
    21. _Mirabelle_ 14, 17, 19, 21. Mirabelle Blanche 7. _Mirabelle
    Blanche_ 14, 16, 19, 20, 21. _Mirabelle de Metz_ 15, 19, 20,
    24. _Mirabelle de Vienne_ 14, 16, 19, 20, 21. _Mirabelle Jaune_
    7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 19, 20, 21. _Mirabelle Perle_ 14, 20.
    _Mirabelle Perlée_ 7, 16, 19, 20, 21. _Mirabelle Petite_ 8, 9,
    11, 13, 17, 19, 21. _Mirabelle précoce_ 16, 17, 19, 20?, 21?.
    Mirabelle Petite 14. _Mirabelle Simple?_ 7. _Mirabelle Verte_
    16, ?21. Mirabelle Verte ?7. _Petit Drap d’Or_ 9, 19, 20.
    _Petite Mirabelle_ 9, 16, 19, 20. Petite Mirabelle 16, 17, 21,
    24. _P. Damascena Armeniacea_ 16. _Prune de Mirabelle_ 9, 17,
    19. Prune de Mirabelle 10. Small Mirabelle 9. _Small Mirabelle_
    19, 20. _Syrische Pflaume_ 19, 20. The Green Damosine Plum ?2.
    _White Mirabelle_ 14, 16, 19, 21. White Mirable 4. _Wiener
    Mirabelle_ 19, 20.

Mirabelle, though described in an American fruit book as early as 1832
and mentioned in nearly every pomology since, is hardly known in America.
In Europe, especially in France, it is one of the favorite varieties and
is in great demand for canning, preserves, compotes, tarts and prunes.
The trees of this variety on the grounds of this Station grow very well,
producing fine crops of fruit, as it is probable they would do wherever
the Damsons can be grown. The small, round, yellow fruits are attractive
in appearance, and the sweet, pleasant flavor of the variety should fit
it admirably in this country for the purposes for which it is so largely
grown by the French. The trees are small but vigorous and healthy, the
last two qualities having suggested in Europe their use as stocks, to
which purpose they are sometimes put in France when a dwarfing stock is
needed. European writers say that the variety may be reproduced from seed.

Mirabelle is a very old plum; it was noted by the pomological writers in
the latter part of the Seventeenth Century and since that date it has
held a conspicuous place in all of the European plum literature. This
variety, though probably sparingly introduced in America at different
times, has never been widely cultivated and is not now offered for sale
by any of the nurserymen whose catalogs have been consulted for _The
Plums of New York_.

    Tree small, round and open-topped, hardy; branches dark
    ash-gray, smooth, with numerous, small lenticels; branchlets
    slender, of medium length, dull brownish-red, thorny, glabrous,
    with numerous, small, indistinct lenticels; leaf-buds of medium
    size and length, conical, free.

    Leaves falling early, one and one-half inches wide, three
    inches long, folded upward, oval, rather thin; upper surface
    medium green, smooth, with few hairs scattered along the
    grooved midrib; lower surface silvery-green, pubescent;
    apex acute, base abrupt, margin crenate, with small, black
    glands; petiole one-half inch long, tinged red along one side,
    glandless or with from one to three small, globose glands
    usually on the stalk.

    Flowers appearing in mid-season, after the leaves,
    seven-eighths inch across, white with a yellow tinge as the
    buds unfold; borne on lateral spurs and buds, in twos or
    threes; pedicels three-quarters inch long, slender, thickly
    pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, broadly obconic,
    glabrous except at the base; calyx-lobes of medium width,
    obtuse, glandular-serrate, pubescent on both surfaces;
    reflexed; petals oval, crenate, tapering to short, broad claws;
    anthers yellow with a tinge of red; filaments three-eighths
    inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit mid-season, period of ripening of medium length;
    seven-eighths inch in diameter, roundish-oval, slightly necked,
    swollen on one side, compressed, halves equal; cavity very
    shallow and narrow, abrupt; suture indistinct; apex roundish
    or depressed; color light golden-yellow, sometimes blushed and
    mottled with red on the exposed cheek, overspread with thick
    bloom; dots numerous, small, whitish, inconspicuous, clustered
    at the apex; stem slender, three-quarters inch long, pubescent,
    adhering poorly to the fruit; skin thin, tough, not astringent,
    separating readily; flesh light yellow, not very juicy, firm,
    but tender, sweet, mild, but pleasant; good to very good; stone
    free, five-eighths inch by three-eighths inch in size, oval,
    blunt, broadly ridged along one edge, roughish.


MIRACLE

_Prunus insititia_ × _Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =62=:594. 1903. =2.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 25. 1904. =3.= _Rural N. Y._ =64=:280. 1905. 4. _Oregon
    Nur. Cat._ =4.= 1906. =5.= DeVries _Pl. Br._ 228. 1907.

Unfortunately, so far as is known, this much-talked-of plum has not been
fruited in New York. About 1887, Luther Burbank imported from a French
nurseryman a tree of the Prunier San Noyeau or Stoneless plum known as
a curiosity in Europe for at least three centuries. With this fruit he
crossed several of the best European varieties, producing hybrids which
first fruited in 1893. Although there were several stoneless fruits in
this lot, none were of any value and it was not until 1899 that one
appeared worthy of consideration. In this seedling, developed from Agen
pollen, the stone is represented by a small, hard scale near the base
of the kernel. Burbank sold the new plum in 1903 to the Oregon Nursery
Company by whom it was introduced in 1906. The following description is
compiled:

    Tree somewhat dwarfish, producing a roundish, compact head,
    very productive. Fruit larger than Agen, oblong, dark blue
    covered with thick bloom; cavity medium; stem short; flesh
    yellow, sweet, juicy; good; stone lacking, the kernel lying
    naked in the flesh.


MONARCH

[Illustration: MONARCH]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =19=:815. 1883. =2.= _Rev. Hort._ 252,
    Pl. 1892. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 360. 1895. =4.= _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =131=:181 fig. 40 V, 189. 1897. =5.= _Rural N. Y._
    =57=:670, 671 fig. 310. 1898. =6.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242,
    247. 1899. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1899. =8.= Waugh
    _Plum Cult._ 116. 1901. =9.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:158
    fig. 956. 1901. =10.= _Garden_ =62=:298. 1902. =11.= _Gard.
    Chron._ =36=:282. 1904. =12.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:242 fig.,
    256, 257. 1905.

    Monarque 3. Prune Monarque 2.

No plum of recent introduction has so quickly attained popularity as
the Monarch. Of the great number of plums imported from the Old World,
this is one of the few which has proved worthy of a place with the best
American varieties for American conditions, an illustration of the
importance of testing all foreign fruits. The plate shows the fruit of
this variety well, though the plums look smaller in the illustration than
in nature—an illusion always accompanying the reproduction in exact size
of the photograph of a round object. The nicely turned form and the rich
purple color of this plum make it a handsome fruit. While the quality
is not of the best, Monarch ranks high among purple plums as a dessert
fruit, few plums of this color being especially palatable to eat out of
hand. The variety is not remarkable for any of its tree-characters, yet
they average well with other plums and, with those of the fruit, make
a variety quite above the average and give it a place among the best
commercial sorts. Monarch is now so widely disseminated and so largely
grown in New York, that we shall know shortly whether it is to hold the
high place it has so quickly taken among market plums in this State.

Monarch, a seedling of the Autumn Compote, was grown by Thomas Rivers,
Sawbridgeworth, England and was introduced by the originator in 1885.
English publications described and figured this variety in 1883 but there
are no notices of it in American pomological literature until 1897. Two
years later it was placed on the fruit list of the American Pomological
Society catalog and recommended for the north-eastern section of the
United States. Notwithstanding the fact that the variety is relatively
new, it is now offered for sale by nearly every nurseryman in this
country.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, open-topped,
    hardy at Geneva, usually productive; branches ash-gray,
    smooth, with small lenticels; branchlets of medium thickness
    and length, with internodes of average length, greenish-red,
    changing to brownish-drab, dull, thickly pubescent, with
    obscure, small lenticels; leaf-buds large, long, pointed,
    appressed; leaf-scars somewhat swollen.

    Leaves broadly oval, wide, medium in length, thick, somewhat
    stiff; upper surface rugose, covered thinly with hairs; lower
    surface pubescent; apex abruptly pointed, margin serrate or
    crenate, eglandular; petiole short, thick, heavily pubescent,
    lightly tinged red, glandless or with one or two large,
    reniform or globose, greenish-brown glands usually on the stalk.

    Season of bloom intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing with the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across,
    white; pedicels three-quarters inch in length, thick,
    pubescent, green; calyx-tube greenish, campanulate, pubescent;
    calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, thickly pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals oval, crenate, tapering
    to short and very broad claws; anthers yellow; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil pubescent, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit late; two inches by one and three-quarters inches in
    size, roundish-oval, halves unequal; cavity deep, medium to
    narrow, abrupt; suture shallow, often a line; apex roundish or
    flattened; color dark purplish-red, often with russet flecks
    scattered over the surface, overspread with thick bloom; dots
    numerous, small, reddish-brown, conspicuous, clustered about
    the apex; stem thick, three-quarters inch long, pubescent,
    adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, tender, slightly
    astringent, separating readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy,
    somewhat fibrous, tender, sweet next to the skin, pleasantly
    tart towards the center, aromatic; good; stone clinging, one
    inch by five-eighths inch in size, long-oval, turgid, roughened
    and pitted, pointed at the base, blunt at the apex; ventral
    suture rather wide, shallowly furrowed, blunt; dorsal suture
    with a wide, shallow groove.


MONROE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 189, 210. 1856. =2.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 389. 1857. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 356. 1867.
    =4.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 414. 1883. =5.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 364.
    1895. =6.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:189. 1897. =7.= Waugh
    _Plum Cult._ 116. 1901. =8.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    =2=:320. 1903.

    Monroe Egg 1, 6. _Monroe Egg_ 2, 7, 8. _Monroe Gage_ 1, 2, 5,
    7, 8. Monroe Gage 4. Reine-Claude de Monroe 5.

The fruit of Monroe is small and the trees produce well only in alternate
years, defects that its high quality cannot overcome. Monroe originated
with a Miss Durham, Penfield, Monroe County, New York, about the middle
of the last century. At one time it was quoted by nearly all nurserymen
but the variety is fast disappearing.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, productive;
    branchlets covered with fine pubescence; leaves oval, one and
    three-quarters inches wide, three and one-half inches long,
    thick, rugose; margin finely serrate; petiole tinged red,
    pubescent, with from one to three small glands.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; one and three-eighths inches by
    one and one-quarter inches in size, oval, sometimes necked,
    golden-yellow, often mottled on the sunny side with red,
    overspread with thin bloom; stem adhering poorly to the fruit;
    flesh golden-yellow, tender, sweet, mild; of very good quality;
    stone semi-free or free, three-quarters inch by one-half
    inch in size, long and slightly irregular-oval, acute at the
    base and apex, with nearly smooth surfaces; ventral suture
    prominent, blunt.


MOREMAN

_Prunus hortulana_

    =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 91. 1885. =2.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =38=:49, 86. 1892. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =123=:20. 1895.
    =4.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =11=:285. 1898. =5.= Bailey _Ev. Nat.
    Fruits_ 177, 206. 1898. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 40. 1899.
    =7.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:280. 1900. =8.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._
    =101=:135, 137. 1901, =9.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257.
    1905.

    Mooreman 1.

Moreman is the hardiest of the Hortulana plums and possibly worthy of
keeping before plum-growers for this reason. Its fruit-characters are
not as satisfactory as those of several other varieties of its species.
Dr. Wayland of Cadiz, Kentucky, according to T. V. Munson, grew a lot of
seedlings from pits of wild plums found in his vicinity and either from
this lot or from a seedling from them, came the Moreman. The variety
was introduced by W. F. Heikes in 1881. It was listed in the catalog of
the American Pomological Society in 1899. The following description is
compiled.

    Tree vigorous, spreading, hardy, productive; leaves of medium
    size, coarsely serrate; petiole usually glandless. Fruit late;
    small, roundish, bright red, bloomless; stem long, slender;
    dots numerous, yellow; flesh firm, yellow, pleasant in flavor;
    quality fair; stone small, roundish, clinging.


MOROCCO

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_ 207.
    1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1528. 1688. =4.= Langley
    _Pomona_ 91, Pl. XX fig. III. 1729. =5.= Miller _Gard. Dict._
    =3=:1754. =6.= Knoop _Fructologie_ 56. 1771. =7.= Abercrombie
    _Gard. Ass’t_ 13. 1786. =8.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 19.
    1803. =9.= _Pom. Mag._ =3=:103. 1830. =10.= _Lond. Hort.
    Soc. Cat._ 145, 146, 150. 1831. =11.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:82. 1832. =12.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 306. 1845. =13.=
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 282, 382. 1846. =14.= Thomas
    _Am. Fruit Cult._ 338. 1849. =15.= Loudon _Enc. Gard._ 921.
    1834. =16.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 28. 1876. =17.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 714. 1884. =18.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430. 1889.

    Black Morocco 7. _Black Morocco_ 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18.
    _Black Damask_ 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18. _Black Damascus_ 13.
    _Damas Noir_ 5. Damas Noir Hâtif 6, 10. Damas Hâtif 10. _Damas
    noir hâtif_ 11. Early Damask 5, 8. _Early Black Damask_ 9, 10,
    13. Early Damson 10. _Early Morocco_ 10, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18.
    _Early Damask_ 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18. Early Black
    Damask 11. _Early Black Morocco_ 12, 18. Frühe Schwarze Pflaume
    18. _Frühe Platte Damascene_ 18. _Italian Damask_ 12 incor.,
    14. Mogul 16. _Morocco_ 16, 18. _Marokko Pflaume_ 18. Morocco
    Plumb 4. _Morocco_ 5, 8, 9. _Noire Hâtif_ 18. _Saint Cyr_ 11.

This variety is not popular in New York nor does it deserve to be, as
there are many better plums of its season. Its faults are small size, an
insipid flavor and poor keeping qualities. Morocco is one of the oldest
of the cultivated plums. It has been known in Europe for three centuries
at least and is undoubtedly much older, its early history not having
been written. It is not known when the variety was introduced into this
country but it has been grown in the Southern States for many years under
the name Mogul. About 1894, it was reintroduced from England by the W. &
T. Smith Nursery Company of Geneva, New York, under the name Mogul.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, rather tender to cold,
    productive; branchlets covered with heavy pubescence; leaves
    oval, one and three-quarters inches wide, three inches long;
    margin finely serrate or crenate; petiole short, thick, with
    one or two globose glands usually at the base of the leaf;
    blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across,
    white or creamy as the buds unfold; borne on lateral buds and
    spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit late, ripening period short; below medium in size, round
    to oval or obovate, purplish-black, covered with thick bloom;
    dots conspicuous; flesh light golden-yellow, rather dry,
    moderately firm, sweet next to the skin, but rather acid near
    the center; poor; stone clinging, medium to small, oval or
    ovate, flattened, with rough surfaces.


MOTTLED PRUNE

_Prunus domestica_

This plum is placed among the leading varieties only that a full
description of it may be put on record. The fruit is attractive in
color but is inferior in quality. These defects are so prominent that
the variety can hardly become popular. The Mottled Prune originated in
Waterloo, New York, as a chance seedling in 1887; it was introduced by E.
Smith & Sons, Geneva, New York.

    Tree large, round and open-topped, very productive; branches
    stocky; branchlets heavily pubescent; leaves folded backward
    or flattened, oval or obovate, one and three-quarters inches
    wide, three and one-half inches long, thick and leathery,
    rugose; margin crenate, with few, small, dark glands; petiole
    thickly pubescent, dull dark red, glandless or with from one
    to three smallish glands usually on the stalk; blooming season
    intermediate in time and length; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one inch across, white; borne in scattering clusters
    on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels very
    pubescent.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and three-quarters
    inches by one and one-half inches in size, ovate, dark
    purplish-red, somewhat mottled, covered with thick bloom; dots
    numerous, conspicuous; flesh pale yellow, juicy, firm, sweet,
    mild; of fair quality; stone free, one inch by three-quarters
    inch in size, oval, flattened, strongly roughened; ventral
    suture deeply furrowed, often with a short wing; dorsal suture
    with a narrow, shallow groove.


MYROBALAN

_Prunus cerasifera_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 578. 1629. =2.= Gerard
    _Herball_ 1498, 1500. 1636. =3.= Rea _Flora_ 209. 1676. =4.=
    Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1528. 1688. =5.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb.
    Fr._ =2=:111, Pl. XX fig. 15. 1768. =6.= Knoop _Fructologie_
    55, 56. 1771. =7.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 20. 1803. =8.=
    Miller _Gard. Dict._ =3=:1807. =9.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_
    232. 1817. =10.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144, 150. 1831. =11.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:80. 1832. =12.= Hoffy _Orch. Comp._
    =2=:1842. =13.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 294. 1845. =14.=
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 285. 1846. 15. Poiteau _Pom.
    Franc._ 1. 1846. =16.= _Jour. Roy. Hort. Soc._ N. S. =15=:360.
    1868. =17.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 690. 1884. =18.= _Gard. & For._
    =1=:178. 1888. =19.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448. 1889. =20.= _Cal.
    State Board Hort._ 112, 113. 1891. =21.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =38=:66. 1892. =22.= _Rev. Hort._ 204. 1894. =23.= _Neb. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 177. 1895. =24.= _Guide Prat._ 157, 353. 1895. =25.=
    Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 190 fig. 27, 209. 1898. =26.= _Vt.
    Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:211, 212, 215. 1899. =27.= _S. Dak. Sta.
    Bul._ =93=:66. 1905.

    _Arabische Kirsche_ 19. _Asiatische Kirsche_ 19. American
    Cherry Plum 11. _Cerisette_ 11, 18, 19. _Cerizette_ 11.
    _Ciriselle_ 6. Cerisette 6, 11. Cerisette Blanche 6. _Cerise_
    19. _Cherry_ 1, 11. _Cherry Plum_ 7, 8, 11, 16, 19, 20. Cherry
    13, 14, 17. Cherry Plum 9, 10, 18. _De Virginie_ 10, 13, 14.
    Damasine 24. _D’Amerique Rouge_ 10, 13, 14. _Early Scarlet_
    10, 11, 13, 17, 19. _European Cherry Plum_ 11. Muscadine ?1.
    _Kirschpflaume_ 18, 19. _Kleine Kirschpflaume_ 24. Mirobalan 2.
    Mirabilon 3. Mirabolan 5. _Myrobolan_ 13. _Mirabolanenpflaume_
    19. Myrobalans 7. _Mirabolane_ 19. _Mirobalan_ 9, 11.
    _Myrobalane_ 19. _Mirabolan_ 14. _Myrobalan_ 10, 11, 14, 17,
    18, 19. _Mirabelle Rouge_ 24. Mirabelle Rouge 10. _Miser Plum_
    19. _Miser_ 12, 13, 14, 17. _Prune d’Amerique Rouge_ 19. _Prune
    Cerise_ 11. Prune Cerizette 8. _Prunus Myrobalana_ 11, 14, 19,
    23. _Prunus Cerasifera_ 10, 11, 13, 14, 19. _Prune Ceriset_
    11. _Prune de Virginie_ 19. Prunier Myrobolan 15, 22. _Prune
    Cerisette_ 15. _Prunus Cerasifera fructu majore_ 19. _Prunus
    Myrobolana_ 13. _Queene Mother_ ?1. Red Mirobalane 1. Rote
    Kirschpflaume 19. Red Mirabelle 12. _Rothe Mirabelle_ 24.
    _Stambul Erik oder Irek_ 19. _Türkische Kirsche_ 19. _Virginian
    Cherry_ 10, 13, 14, 17, 19. White Mirobalane 1. The Myrobalane
    Plum 4.

Myrobalan is a group name rather than a varietal one. Plums of this
group are grown from seeds and many varieties have appeared during the
last three centuries, differing in color, shape, stone and in many minor
characters. The red and reddish-purple plums and the round ones are
apparently the most numerous though there are frequent references to the
White Myrobalan and to heart-shaped fruits in this group. For a further
discussion of these plums see _Prunus cerasifera_. The Myrobalan plums
are used largely as stocks in the propagation of plums and closely allied
plants; occasionally they are used for culinary purposes though with
rather poor results.


NECTARINE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Pom. Mag._ =3=:148. 1830. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 150.
    1831. =3.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 264. 1832. =4.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 306. 1845. =5.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:115. 1846. =6.=
    _Cole Am. Fr. Book_ 215. 1849. =7.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 518.
    1859. =8.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448. 1889. =9.= _Guide Prat._
    162, 365. 1895.

    _Bradshaw_ 6. _Caledonian_ 1, 2, 3. _Calvel’s Pfirschenpflaume_
    8. _Goliath of some_ 8. _Howel’s_ 3. _Howell’s Large_ 1, 2, 4,
    7, 8. _Jenkin’s Imperial_ 2, 4, 7, 8, 9. _Louis Phillipe_ 4.
    _Louis Philippe_ 6, 7, 8, 9. _Large Early Black_ 6. _Nectarine_
    1, 8, 9. Nectarine Plum 3, 7. _Peach Plum_ 4, 7, 9. _Peach_
    2, 8. _Prune Pêche_ 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8. _Pêche de Calvel_ 8.
    _Prune d’Abricot_ 8. _Pêche_ of some 9. Rothe Nectarine 9. Rote
    Nectarine 8. The Nectarine Plum 1.

Much confusion has existed regarding the identity of the Nectarine, Peach
and Goliath plums. These names have been interchanged indiscriminately
for the three plums and it is now difficult to separate the varieties,
especially as they are very similar. The Goliath, however, may be
separated from the other two by its pubescent shoots, which the others do
not have. The Peach plum is the largest of the three and has a reddish
cast whereas the Nectarine and Goliath are dark purple. The earlier
writers knew a Nectarine as a synonym of Peach but it was not until 1830
that the Nectarine was finally described as a separate variety. Nectarine
is of unknown origin. The following description is compiled.

    Tree vigorous, round-topped, productive; leaves large, oval;
    branches glabrous. Fruit early; large, roundish, flattened at
    the ends, dark purple with thin bloom; flesh greenish-yellow,
    tinged red at maturity, rather coarse, sprightly; fair to good;
    stone of medium size, compressed, oval, semi-clinging.


NEWARK

_Prunus domestica_

This fruit has little to recommend it to the commercial plum-grower; it
is small in size and unattractive in color; the quality, however, is very
good and the variety is worth planting for home use. Newark originated in
Newark, New York, and in 1895 was bought by E. Smith & Sons of Geneva,
New York, who disseminated it two years later.

    Tree medium in size and vigor, upright-spreading, rather
    open, very productive; branches rough; branchlets marked by
    scarf-skin, leaf-scars prominent; leaves flattened, somewhat
    drooping, oval or obovate, one and three-quarters inches wide,
    three and one-half inches long, thick, rugose; margin coarsely
    serrate, with small, dark glands; petiole thick, pubescent,
    glandless or with one or two smallish glands usually on the
    stalk; blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one inch or more across, white
    with yellowish tinge at the apex of the petals; borne singly or
    in pairs; anthers yellow with a trace of red.

    Fruit early, season short; one and one-half inches by one and
    three-eighths inches in size, oval, dull yellow mottled with
    red at full maturity, covered with thin bloom; dots numerous,
    conspicuous; flesh light greenish-yellow, rather dry, firm,
    sweet, mild; good to very good; stone free, three-quarters inch
    by one-half inch in size, irregular-oval, flat, with finely
    pitted surfaces; ventral suture usually winged; dorsal suture
    with a shallow, narrow, indistinct groove.


NEWMAN

[Illustration: NEWMAN]

_Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Horticulturist_ =22=:271. 1867. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 934. 1869. =3.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =5=:142. 1869. =4.=
    _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 39. 1874. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36.
    1875. =6.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 418. 1883. =7.= _Ia. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 286. 1887. =8.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:63, 86. 1892.
    =9.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =123=:20. 1895. =10.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:49. 1897. =11.= _Me. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:66. 1896. =12.=
    Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 200 fig., 201. 1898. =13.= _Rural N.
    Y._ =59=:450. 1900. =14.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:282. 1900. =15.=
    _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.

    _Warren?_ 8.

Newman is one of the oldest but still one of the standard varieties of
its species. Its fruits are characterized by a firm, meaty flesh, which
fits it well for shipping and storing; the plums are also attractive in
shape and color but are too small and too low in quality to make the
variety a first-rate one. The trees are large and vigorous and in all
respects very satisfactory orchard plants. Both fruits and trees are
usually reported as fairly free from diseases and insects. While the
variety is gradually going out it still has some value for its crops
and ought to make a good parent from which to breed a race of vigorous,
firm-fleshed Munsonianas.

The origin of this plum is uncertain. In 1867 a Mr. Elliott of Cleveland,
Ohio, reported in the _Horticulturist_ that he had received samples of
the “Newman Plum” from D. L. Adair, Esq., of Hawesville, Kentucky, and
gave a brief description of the fruit which seems to tally with that of
the variety under discussion. The American Pomological Society added this
plum to its fruit catalog list in 1875 and removed it in 1891.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, low and flat, dense-topped,
    hardy at Geneva, productive, subject to attacks of shot-hole
    fungus, the trunk shaggy; branches dark ash-gray, rough and
    shaggy, thorny, zigzag, with numerous, rather inconspicuous,
    large, elongated lenticels; branchlets very slender, twiggy,
    with internodes of average length, greenish-red, changing to
    dark brown, glabrous, with few, conspicuous, large, raised
    lenticels; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, plump, nearly free.

    Leaves lanceolate, peach-like, one and one-quarter inches
    wide, four inches long, thin; upper surface smooth, glabrous,
    with a grooved midrib; lower surface glabrous except along
    the midrib and larger veins; apex taper-pointed, base acute,
    margin finely crenate, with small, amber glands; petiole
    slender, seven-eighths inch long, lightly pubescent along one
    side, reddish, glandless or with from one to four very small,
    globose, yellowish-red glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, three-quarters inch across, in the buds tinged yellow,
    changing to white on expanding, odor disagreeable; borne in
    clusters on lateral spurs and buds, in twos or in threes;
    pedicels eleven-sixteenths inch long, slender, glabrous,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    small, narrow, slightly obtuse, pubescent on the inner surface,
    glandular-serrate and with marginal hairs, erect; petals ovate
    or oval, crenate, tapering at the base into long, narrow claws;
    anthers yellow, tinged with red; filaments five-sixteenths inch
    long; pistil slender, glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period very long; one inch by
    seven-eighths inch in size, strongly oval, not compressed,
    halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, flaring; suture
    a distinct dark red line; apex depressed; color bright
    currant-red, with thin bloom; dots grayish, rather conspicuous,
    clustered near the apex; stem very slender, seven-eighths inch
    long, glabrous, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, very
    tough, astringent, separating readily; flesh deep yellow,
    juicy, tender and melting, sweetish next to the skin, but tart
    at the center; fair in quality; stone clinging, five-eighths
    inch by three-eighths inch in size, long-oval, turgid, necked
    at the base, blunt-pointed at the apex, with finely pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture narrow, inconspicuous; dorsal suture
    with a narrow, shallow groove.


NEW ULM

[Illustration: NEW ULM]

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 126. 1890. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:49 fig., 50. 1897. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 111. 1899.
    =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1899. =5.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._
    =46=:282 fig. 1900. =6.= _Waugh Plum Cult._ 158. 1901. =7.=
    _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc._ 143. 1901. =8.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._
    =93=:26. 1905. =9.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 422. 1905. =10.=
    _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =114=:141. 1910.

    Snooks 10.

New Ulm is worthy of attention because of its large, handsome,
well-formed fruits. The plums are further distinguished by a peculiar
flavor, somewhat suggesting that of the mandrake, pleasant to some but
disagreeable to others. The flesh is a little too juicy for pleasant
eating but the fruits ship well, the tough, thick skin firmly holding its
contents. The fruits, however, do not keep well, for, despite the thick
skin, the spores of the brown-rot find entrance and thrive so that the
variety rots badly. The trees are hardy and productive but ill-shaped and
hard to manage in either the orchard or the nursery for which reason the
culture of the variety is discouraged by nurserymen and it is now almost
impossible to buy New Ulm trees. The illustration of this variety shows
well the characters of the western type of _Prunus americana_ in leaf,
fruit and stone.

New Ulm was raised from seed of a wild variety that grew in the
neighborhood of the originator and introducer, C. W. H. Heideman, New
Ulm, Minnesota. The fruit was exhibited at the Minnesota State Fair in
1890 where it attracted much attention, being the largest plum of fifty
varieties exhibited. In 1899 the American Pomological Society placed the
variety on its fruit catalog list. The Minnesota State Horticultural
Society, in spite of the fact that this plum has gained a good reputation
for its size and productiveness, removed it from its recommended fruit
list in 1904 because of the difficulty of growing the trees in the
nursery.

    Tree of medium size, spreading and drooping, irregular, low and
    dense-topped, undesirable in habit of growth, hardy, usually
    productive, subject to attacks of shot-hole fungus; branches
    very rough and shaggy, zigzag, thorny, dark ash-gray, with
    large lenticels; branchlets thick, long, willowy, with long
    internodes, green, with a faint yellow tinge, changing to
    light and dark, dull reddish-brown, glabrous, with numerous,
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds small, pointed,
    strongly appressed.

    Leaves drooping, folded upward, oval or ovate, two inches wide,
    four and three-eighths inches long, thin; upper surface dark
    green, changing to reddish-yellow late in the season, glabrous,
    with a grooved midrib; lower surface silvery green, lightly
    pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base abrupt, margin coarsely
    and doubly serrate, eglandular; petiole slender, five-eighths
    inch long, pubescent, tinged with red which deepens in color
    at the base, glandless or with from one to three globose,
    greenish-brown glands usually on the stalk.

    Flowers intermediate in time and length of blooming season,
    appearing after the leaves, showy on account of the numerous
    pure white petals, one and one-sixteenth inches across, white;
    borne in dense clusters on lateral spurs and buds, usually in
    threes; pedicels seven-sixteenths inch long, thick, glabrous,
    greenish; calyx-tube red, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    long, narrowly obtuse, lightly pubescent on the inner surface,
    thickly pubescent along the glandular-serrate margin, erect;
    petals oval, entire or incised, tapering below to narrow
    claws of medium length and with reddish base; anthers yellow;
    filaments seven-sixteenths inch in length; pistil glabrous,
    much shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, intermediate in length of ripening period;
    about one and three-eighths inches in diameter, roundish-ovate,
    halves equal; cavity markedly shallow, very narrow; suture a
    line; apex roundish or slightly pointed; color carmine over a
    yellow ground, overspread with thin bloom; dots very numerous,
    russet; stem five-eighths inch long, glabrous, adhering
    somewhat to the fruit; skin thick and tough, astringent,
    adhering strongly; flesh golden-yellow, very juicy and
    fibrous, granular, tender and melting, sweet with a strong
    aromatic flavor; good; stone adhering, seven-eighths inch by
    nine-sixteenths inch in size, oval, slightly flattened, blunt
    at the base, pointed at the apex, with smooth surfaces; ventral
    suture distinctly winged; dorsal suture narrow, shallow,
    grooved.


NICHOLAS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887. =2.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._
    =101=:121, 124 fig. 1901. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    327. 1903.

    _Arab No. 2 Bielaya Nicholskaya_ 1. White Nicolas 1. White
    Nicholas 2, 3.

Although a fairly good early dessert plum it is doubtful if Nicholas has
any commercial value as it is inferior in most characters of fruit and
tree to standard varieties; in particular it drops badly as it begins
to ripen. “White,” as formerly and usually now put in the name, is a
misnomer, as the fruit is red; how it came to be applied to this fruit
does not appear. Nicholas was imported from Dr. Regel of St. Petersburg,
Russia, by Professor J. L. Budd of the Iowa Experiment Station in the
winter of 1881-82 and in 1888 was sent out for testing under the name
Arab No. 2.

    Tree of medium size, round-topped, productive; trunk
    rough; branches smooth except for the raised lenticels and
    longitudinal cracks in the bark; branchlets slender; leaves
    falling early, folded upward, obovate or oval, one and
    five-eighths inches wide, three and three-eighths inches long,
    rugose; margin serrate, with few, small, dark glands; petiole
    pubescent, tinged red, sometimes with several small glands;
    blooming season intermediate in time, short; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one inch or more across, white, tinged with
    yellow near the apex of the petals; borne on lateral buds and
    spurs, in scattering clusters, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit early, one and three-eighths inches by one inch in size,
    long-oval, dark red, covered with thick bloom; stem adhering
    poorly to the fruit; flesh light yellow, juicy, fibrous,
    tender, sweet, mild; good; stone free, one inch by five-eighths
    inch in size, flattened, oval, somewhat obliquely acute at the
    base, with granular surfaces; ventral suture prominent, rather
    narrow, blunt; dorsal suture with a narrow, shallow groove.


OCCIDENT

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =57=:653. 1898. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =19=:826.
    1898. =3.= Burbank _Cat._ 1899. =4.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =12=:229. 1899. =5.= _Rural N. Y._ =60=:658 fig., 662. 1901.
    =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 320. 1903. =7.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =68=:11, 37. 1905. =8.= _Rural N. Y._ =65=:730. 1906.

    _Burbank’s Sultan_ 6. Garnet 1. _Garnet_ 2. _Occident_ 8. Oval
    Blood (unpublished). Sultan 2, 3, 5, 8. _Sultan_ 4, 7.

Occident differs little from Apple in horticultural characters and
need not be discussed at length as the reader can readily turn to the
color-plate and description of the last named variety. At best this sort
can hardly be called more than a curiosity, though an interesting one,
of use, if at all, only for cooking and as a long-keeping, rot-resistant
plum. It will add novelty to any amateur’s collection because of the
size, shape, color, flavor and red flesh of the fruits.

This variety was grown by Burbank and introduced by him in 1899 under the
name Sultan. H. E. Van Deman, in the _Rural New Yorker_ (References, 1),
says that Occident is a cross between Wickson and Satsuma and that the
name Garnet which he suggested, owing to the color of its flesh and skin,
had been accepted by Mr. Burbank. About two months later the Division of
Pomology of the United States Department of Agriculture called attention
to the fact that “Garnet” had been previously given to another variety
and the name was changed to Sultan. Waugh in 1899 substituted “Occident”
for Sultan as the latter is the name of a European plum; Waugh’s name
has been accepted by all recent writers. Occident undoubtedly contains
Satsuma blood but it has but few characters that suggest Wickson, and
if a cross, which is likely, the other parent is undeterminable. The
following description is compiled:

    Tree vigorous, slow of growth, straggling, somewhat variable
    in habit, late in coming into bearing, productive; leaves
    numerous, large.

    Fruit ripens with Burbank, keeps and ships unusually well,
    resistant to rot; large, roundish; cavity of medium depth;
    suture shallow, distinct; color dark red over a greenish
    ground; dots many, yellowish; stem thick, short, adhering to
    the fruit; skin somewhat thin, tough, slightly astringent;
    flesh dark red, firm, sweet, rather acid, changing to subacid
    as maturity advances, sprightly; good to very good; stone free
    or semi-clinging, of medium size, roundish, turgid, winged,
    rough.


OCHEEDA

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:41. 1892. =2.= _Wis. Sta. An.
    Rpt._ =11=:344. 1894. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =34=:112.
    1899. =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1899. =5.= Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 159. 1901. =6.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:31. 1903.
    =7.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 420. 1905. =8.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._
    =93=:28. 1905.

    Ocheda 7.

This variety is generally regarded as one of the valuable native plums
but in New York it is surpassed by a number of other plums of its species
in size of fruit and color though the quality is very good. We must rank
it in this State as second rate among Americanas. Ocheeda was found by P.
L. Hardow in 1872 growing wild on the banks of Ocheeda Lake, Minnesota,
and in 1892 was introduced by H. J. Ludlow of Worthington, Minnesota.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, unproductive;
    branches shaggy, thorny, with large lenticels; branchlets
    willowy, pubescent; leaves folded upward, oval, nearly
    two inches wide, three and one quarter inches long; margin
    coarsely and doubly serrate; petiole densely covered with
    short hairs; blooming season intermediate in time and length;
    flowers appearing after the leaves, seven-eighths inch across,
    dull white; borne in scattering clusters almost entirely on
    one-year-old wood, many lateral buds remaining undeveloped, the
    bare limbs carrying tufts or clusters of blossoms, in threes or
    fours; petals long-obovate, nearly three times as long as wide,
    tapering to long claws, reddish at the base; stigma distinctly
    reddish when the flowers first open.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; one inch by
    seven-eighths inch in size, ovate or roundish-ovate, slightly
    oblique, dull light to dark carmine over a yellow ground,
    somewhat mottled, overspread with thick bloom; skin slightly
    astringent; flesh dark golden-yellow, tender, melting, sweet,
    aromatic, pleasant in flavor; fair to good; stone dark colored,
    nearly free, three quarters inch by one-half inch in size,
    roundish-oval, turgid with smooth surfaces; ventral suture
    markedly winged.


OCTOBER

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:58. 1896. =2.= _Cal. State Bd.
    Hort._ 52. 1897-98. =3.= _Am. Gard._ =20=:162 fig. 1899. =4.=
    _Rural N. Y._ =59=:104, 690. 1900. =5.= _Am. Gard._ =21=:36,
    660. 1900. =6.= _Nat. Nur._ =8=:109, 123. 1900. =7.= Waugh
    _Plum Cult._ 139. 1901. =8.= _Rural N. Y._ =62=:756. 1903. =9.=
    _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:250 fig., 256, 257. 1905. =10.= _Mass.
    Sta. An. Rp._ =17=:160. 1905.

    October Purple 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10. _October Purple_ 7.

There are but few late plums in _Prunus triflora_ worth cultivating and
one of the needs of horticulture is a late plum of superior quality in
this species. At present October is the nearest approach to the plum
desired but because of several faults it falls considerably short of
filling the need. The fruits are large, attractive-looking, fairly
suitable for dessert, very good for culinary purposes, hang well to the
tree and keep and ship much better than the average Triflora variety;
but still they are not far enough from mediocrity to make the variety
especially desirable. The trees are well shaped, usually robust and
healthy and the fruit is well borne on lateral spurs distributed over
the old wood; but in New York, at least, the trees are very tardy in
coming in bearing and cannot be depended upon to bear satisfactory crops
regularly—a fatal fault in a Triflora plum. October might be sparingly
planted in New York to the pleasure of the amateur and possibly to the
profit of the commercial fruit-grower who has a good local market.

October is said to be a cross of Satsuma and a seedling Triflora plum; it
was first fruited by Luther Burbank in 1892 and was introduced by Stephen
Hoyt’s Sons, New Canaan, Connecticut, in 1897. The variety was named
October Purple by Burbank but “Purple” has been dropped in accordance
with the rules of the American Pomological Society.

    Tree variable in size and vigor, upright-spreading,
    open-topped, hardy for a Triflora, not uniform in
    productiveness, healthy; branches rough, dark, dull ash-gray,
    with numerous, small lenticels; branchlets slender, long, with
    internodes of average length, greenish-red changing to dull
    reddish-brown, often with a green tinge on the winter shoots,
    glabrous; lenticels numerous, small; leaf-buds small, short,
    obtuse, free.

    Leaves falling early, sparse, folded upward, oval or obovate,
    one and three-eighths inches wide, three and one-quarter inches
    long, thin and leathery; upper surface slightly rugose, with
    a broad groove on the lightly pubescent midrib; lower surface
    very thinly pubescent; apex and base acute, margin glandular,
    doubly serrate or crenate; petiole one-half inch long, hairy
    along the upper side, green, with from one to three small,
    globose, yellowish glands variable in position.

    Blooming season early to medium, of average length; flowers
    appearing before the leaves, thirteen-sixteenths inch across,
    white; borne in dense clusters on lateral spurs and buds,
    in pairs; pedicels one-half inch long, slender, glabrous,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    obtuse, glandular-serrate, with numerous hairs along the edge,
    pubescent, somewhat erect; petals broadly ovate, entire,
    tapering to short, blunt claws; anthers yellow; filaments
    three-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit mid-season or later, ripening period long; one and
    seven-eighths inches in diameter, roundish-cordate or slightly
    oblate, halves unequal; cavity deep, wide, flaring, with
    streaks radiating from the cavity; suture shallow or a line;
    apex roundish to slightly pointed; color dark red over a
    yellowish-green ground, with bloom of medium thickness; dots
    numerous, large, russet, conspicuous, clustered about the
    apex; stem somewhat slender, five-eighths inch long, glabrous,
    adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, tough, sour, separating
    readily; flesh light yellow frequently tinged with red, very
    juicy, slightly fibrous, variable in firmness, sweet, mild,
    lacking the strong characteristic Triflora flavor; good; stone
    clinging, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    roundish-oval, blunt but with a small tip, somewhat rough,
    ridged along the ventral, grooved on the dorsal suture.


OGON

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 29. 1886. =2.= _Ibid._ 35, 58.
    1888. =3.= _Ibid_. 53, 99. 1889. =4.= _Col., O., Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 81. 1892. =5.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:27, 28 fig. 1894.
    =6.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt_. 95. 1895. =7.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =106=:59. 1896. =8.= _Ibid._ =131=:194. 1897. =9.= _Ibid_. =139=:45.
    1897. =10.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897. =11.= _Rural N.
    Y._ =57=:562. 1898. =12.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:43. 1898. =13.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242, 249. 1899. =14.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =175=:138 fig. 1899. =15.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:157. 1899. =16.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 139. 1901. =17.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:6 32.
    1905. =18.= _Miss. Sta. Bul._ =93=:15. 1905.

    _Ogan_ 5. Ogden 1. _Ogon_ 5. _Shiro Smomo_ 6. _Yellow Nagate_ 2.

Ogon, the Japanese for gold, is the name for one of the comparatively
few varieties of _Prunus triflora_ having a yellow color. This variety
is further distinguished by being the only freestone sort of its species
under cultivation in America. Ogon also has a flavor quite distinct,
resembling somewhat that of the apricot, which is agreeable to some and
not so to others; as the variety grows on the grounds of this Station it
cannot be considered of high quality even for an early plum. The fruits
crack rather badly on the tree and seem to be unusually susceptible to
the attacks of curculio. In some of the references given, it is reported
as making a poor tree and as having a weak constitution, and practically
all agree that the variety is unproductive. These faults preclude its
use in commercial plantations. The variety is distinct and interesting
not only in its fruits but in its flowers which bear comparatively few
stamens, many of which are abortive and show all degrees between perfect
stamens and perfect petals.

Ogon was imported from Japan by H. H. Berger and Company, San Francisco,
California. It was first mentioned as the Ogden in the Georgia
Horticultural Society Report for 1886 and in the 1888 report of the
same Society it was described as a new fruit. In 1897, the American
Pomological Society added Ogon to its fruit catalog list.

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, vasiform, dense-topped, hardy
    at Geneva, unproductive; branches slender, roughened by
    numerous spurs, sparingly thorny, dark gray, with numerous,
    small lenticels; branchlets sometimes swollen at the tips, of
    medium thickness and length, with internodes of average length,
    dark brown often with some green, partly overspread with gray
    scarf-skin, glossy, glabrous; lenticels medium in number and
    size, raised; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, plump, free.

    Leaves few, oblanceolate, peach-like, variable in size,
    averaging one and one-eighth inches wide, four inches long,
    thin; upper surface light green, shining, glabrous, narrowly
    grooved along the midrib; lower surface light yellowish-green,
    glabrous except at the base of the veins; margin finely
    crenate, with small, dark amber glands; petiole one-half inch
    long, glandless or with from one to four globose, greenish
    glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season early and of medium length; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, thirteen-sixteenths inch across, white;
    borne in clusters on lateral spurs and buds, in threes or in
    fours; pedicels five-sixteenths inch long, glabrous, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, acute,
    slightly glandular-serrate, faintly pubescent, erect; petals
    broadly ovate, entire, tapering below to short claws; anthers
    yellowish, with a little pink; filaments three-sixteenths inch
    long; pistil glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit early, season short; one and one-quarter inches by one
    and three-quarters inches in size, roundish-oblate, oblique,
    halves equal; cavity narrow, regular, flaring; suture variable
    in depth, prominent; apex roundish or slightly flattened; color
    lemon-yellow, with thin bloom; dots numerous, small, whitish,
    inconspicuous; stem slender, one-half inch long, glabrous,
    separating readily; skin thin, tough, astringent, inclined to
    crack, slightly adhering; flesh pale or amber-yellow, not as
    juicy as many of the Trifloras, firm and meaty, sweet, mild; of
    fair quality; stone free, five-eighths inch by one-half inch in
    size, roundish-oval, turgid, blunt but with a small short tip,
    oblique, slightly pitted; ventral suture faintly ridged and
    furrowed; dorsal suture not grooved.


ORANGE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 150. 1831. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 282. 1845. =3.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 214. 1849. =4.= Mas
    _Le Verger_ =6=:25. 1866-73. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 442.
    1889. =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 320. 1903.

    _Orange_ 5. _Orange Gage_ 2, 5, 6. Pomeranzen Zwetsche 5. Wager
    5, 6.

Orange belongs to the Reine Claude group. Taking its characters all in
all it cannot compete with even the average varieties of the plums with
which it should be compared. This variety was introduced by A. J. Downing
who secured it from a Mr. Teller of Rhinebeck, Dutchess County, New York.
Although Rhinebeck is probably its place of origin, it is not likely that
Teller first grew the variety since it was quite generally disseminated
in that vicinity at the time of its introduction. It is fast passing from
cultivation.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright, productive; branches roughened
    by the raised lenticels; branchlets numerous, pubescent; leaves
    oval or slightly obovate, two inches wide, four inches long,
    thick; margin crenate or serrate, with small grands; petiole
    tinged red, pubescent, with from two to three globose glands.

    Fruit matures in mid-season; about one and one-half inches in
    diameter roundish-truncate, light amber-yellow with a blush,
    overspread with thin bloom; stem slender, adhering strongly to
    the fruit; flesh pale yellow, firm, sweet; of good quality;
    stone free or nearly so, one inch by five-eighths inch in
    size, obovate, acute at the apex, blunt at the base, with
    thickly pitted surfaces; ventral suture wide, usually blunt but
    sometimes distinctly winged; dorsal suture with a deep groove.


OREN

[Illustration: OREN]

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:285 fig. 1900. =2.= Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 174. 1901. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 299. 1903.

    _Bartlett_ 1. _Bingaman_ 1.

Waugh places Oren with the “Miner-like” plums but as the variety grows
here it is a typical western Americana—the characters of this species in
leaf, fruit and stone being well shown in the accompanying plate. It is
one of the best of the Americanas in both fruit and tree. The fruits are
large and of good shape, perhaps a little dull in color and not quite
as good in quality as a few other Americanas but still averaging very
well in all fruit-characters. The flesh is very nearly free from the
stone. The trees are typical of the species, shaggy of trunk and limb,
straggling and unkempt in growth of top, but hardy, robust, healthy and
reliable in bearing. It would seem as if this variety is rather too good
to be allowed to pass out of cultivation until there are more Americanas
that are better.

Oren was taken from the wild in Black Hawk County, Iowa, about 1878, by
J. K. Oren. Mr. Oren grew trees of this plum on his farm and permitted
all who came to take sprouts, cions and seed until the variety was very
generally disseminated locally. Who introduced it to the trade and when
is not known.

    Tree small, spreading, low, dense-topped, hardy, often
    unproductive; branches roughish, slightly zigzag, thorny, dark
    ash-brown, with small lenticels; branchlets slender, long,
    twiggy, with internodes of average length, green changing to
    dark chestnut-brown, glabrous, with large, conspicuous, raised
    lenticels; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, free.

    Leaves falling early, oval or obovate, two inches wide,
    three and three-quarters inches long; upper surface dark
    green changing to golden-yellow late in the season, smooth
    and shining, with a narrow, grooved midrib; lower surface
    silvery-green, lightly pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base
    abrupt, margin coarsely serrate, the serrations ending in sharp
    points, eglandular; petiole five-eighths inch long, thick,
    tinged red, thinly pubescent, glandless or with one or two
    prominent, greenish-brown glands.

    Blooming season late and of medium length; flowers appearing
    after the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across, white;
    borne in clusters on lateral spurs and buds, in pairs or in
    threes; pedicels five-eighths inch long, slender, glabrous,
    green, tinged with red; calyx-tube red, campanulate, enlarged
    at the base, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, somewhat obtuse,
    pubescent on both surfaces and on the margin, reflexed; petals
    ovate, somewhat crenate or fringed, tapering below to long,
    narrow claws, sparingly hairy along the edge of the base;
    anthers yellow; filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil
    glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season; one
    and three-sixteenths inches in diameter, roundish, usually
    truncate and slightly oblique, compressed, halves equal;
    cavity very shallow, flaring; suture a line; apex roundish
    or flattened; color dull light or dark red over a yellow
    ground, mottled, with thick bloom; dots numerous, very small,
    light russet, inconspicuous; stem slender, five-eighths inch
    long, glabrous; skin tough, astringent, adhering; flesh dark
    golden-yellow, juicy, fibrous, soft and melting, sweet; fair to
    good; stone semi-free, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch
    in size, irregularly roundish or ovate, flattened, blunt at the
    base and apex, with smooth surfaces; ventral suture strongly
    winged; dorsal suture acute, with a narrow and shallow groove.


ORLEANS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68. 1699. =2.= Langley _Pomona_
    91, Pl. XX fig. 4. 1729. =3.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ =3=:1754.
    =4.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb._ Fr. =2=:78, Pl. VII. 1768. =5.= Knoop
    _Fructologie_ =2=:52, 55, 56, 57. 1771. =6.= Forsyth _Treat.
    Fr. Trees_ 19. 1803. =7.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:32, Tab. 179
    fig. 1. 1796. =8.= Brookshaw _Pom. Brit._ Pl. XI. 1817. =9.=
    _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 145, 150. 1831. =10.= Prince _Pom.
    Man._ =2=:62, 67, 85. 1832. =11.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846.
    =12.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 289, 290, 383. 1846.
    =13.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 339. 1849. =14.= _Elliott Fr.
    Book_ 428. 1854. =15.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 519. 1859. =16.=
    Downing _Fr Trees Am._ 935. 1869. =17.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:37,
    fig. 19. 1873. =18.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875. =19.=
    Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 414. 1881. =20.= Mathieu _Nom.
    Pom._ 435. 1882. =21.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 715. 1884. =22.=
    _Guide Prat._ 156, 360. 1895.

    _Anglaise Noire_ 16, 17, 20, 21, 22. _Angloise Noire_ 5.
    Brignole? 1. Brugnole? 1. _Brignole Violette_ 17, 20, 22.
    Brignole Violette? 5. _Common Orleans_ 10, 16, 17, 20. _Damas
    Rouge_ 10. Damas Rouge 5, 9. _Damas Violet?_ 5. _De Monsieur_
    17, 22. Die Herrnpflaume 7. _English Orleans_ 10, 16, 17,
    20. _French Orleans_ 8. _Hernnpflaume_ 17. Herrnpflaume 19.
    _Herrnpflaume_ 22. _Herzog von Orleans_ 20, 22. _Italian
    Damask_ of some 14. _Large Red Orleans_ 10. _Late Monsieur_
    10, 16, 17, 20. Monsieur 4, 9, 10, 12, 17, 22. _Monsieur_ 10,
    13, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21. _Monsieur Ordinaire_ 9, 10, 14, 15,
    16, 17, 20, 21, 22. _Old Orleans_ 10, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20,
    22. _Orleans_ 17, 20, 22. _Orleans Red Damask_ 20. _Prune de
    Monsieur_ 10, 16, 20. Prune de Monsieur 11. _Prune d’Orleans_
    16, 17, 20, 21. _Prunelle?_ 5. _Prune Monsieur_ 7. Red Damask
    10. _Red Damask_ 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22.
    _Red Orleans_ 10, 16, 17, 20. Red Orleans Plum 6.

In Europe Orleans is one of the most renowned of the plums cultivated.
A proof of its popularity is the great number of names, as shown in
the synonymy given above, under which it passes in England and on
the continent. This variety, however, is almost unknown in America
though described by all of the older American pomologists and probably
introduced time and again during the last hundred years in our orchards.
The French fruit books say that the variety thrives better in southern
than northern France and nearly all of the European writers state that
it does best in high, dry, light, warm soils. It is likely that our
climate, and the soils in which plums are generally grown in America, are
not suited to this sort. Unfortunately this Station has no trees of this
variety and the brief description given is a compilation.

The Orleans has been cultivated for more than two hundred years. Langley
said of it in 1729 “The Orleans Plumb tho a common, is yet a very
valuable Plumb, as well for its fine firm juicy Pulp when well ripened,
as its being a constant and plentiful bearer.” The Red Damask and the
Brugnole mentioned by Quintinye in 1699 are probably the Orleans; but
the Prune de Monsieur of Knoop and the Monsieur of Tournefort, which are
yellow, are distinct. The variety is evidently of French origin. Mas
in his _Pomologie Generale_, 1873, states that it first bore the name
Brignole Violette, but later was given the name it now bears in honor of
Monsieur, Duke of Orleans, brother of Louis XIV. Damas Rouge is an old
synonym, though Duhamel described it as a distinct variety. Herrnpflaume
is the common name of the Orleans in Germany and Austria, while in
France, it is often called the Monsieur. It has never been common in
America, yet it was entered on the American Pomological Society catalog
list in 1875.

    Tree large, vigorous, hardy, productive, bearing annually;
    branches grayish, pubescent; leaves large, ovate, with crenate
    margins; flowers large, blooming early; petals roundish,
    imbricated.

    Fruit early mid-season; medium in size, roundish-truncate,
    sides unequal; cavity usually shallow, wide; suture distinct;
    apex flattened; color dark or purplish-red, overspread with
    thin bloom, with a sprinkling of pale reddish dots; stem thick,
    short; skin tender; flesh yellowish, juicy, usually melting
    when properly matured, sweet near the skin but sprightly toward
    the center, pleasant-flavored; good; stone free, small, oval,
    flattened, with roughish surfaces.


OULLINS

[Illustration: OULLINS]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 374. 1866. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    935. 1869. =3.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 15. 1871. =4.= _Mas Le
    Verger_ =6=:43. 1866-73. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1877. =6.=
    _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 366. 1887. =7.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
    446. 1889. =8.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 117. 1901. =9.= Thompson
    _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:158. 1901.

    _Massot_ 6, 7. _Monstrueuse d’Oullins_ 2, 7. _Ouillin’s Gage_
    2, 7. Oullins Golden 1. Oullin’s Golden 2, 9. _Oullin’s Golden_
    3, 4, 6, 7. _Oullin’s Golden Gage_ 2, 7. Oullins Golden Gage
    5. _Oullin’s Green Gage_ 8. _Prune-Massot_ 3. _Reine-Claude
    d’Oullins_ 1, 2, 7, 9. Reine-Claude D’Oullins 3, 4, 6.
    _Reine-Claude Prêcoce_ 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 9. Reine-Claude von
    Oullins 7. _Roi-Claude_ 3, 7.

Oullins came to America with the best of recommendations from European
growers but it has fallen so far short of its reputation in Europe that
it was dropped from the fruit list of the American Pomological Society
and is gradually disappearing from cultivation. The fault is in the
fruit which is but indifferent in quality for a plum of the Reine Claude
group. In Europe the variety is rated as one of the best dessert sorts;
in America it is hardly second-rate in quality. This difference may be
due to differences in climate and soil; more probably, it is due to the
greater number of better Reine Claude varieties grown in America with
which it must compete. Hand, Jefferson, Washington, McLaughlin, Yellow
Gage, Spaulding and Imperial Gage, the cream of the Reine Claude plums,
are all Americans similar to Oullins but much better in quality. Oullins
is hardly surpassed by any of its group in tree-characters and might well
be used for breeding purposes as there are so few sorts of its kind
having satisfactory trees.

This variety, probably a Reine Claude seedling, was found at Coligny,
France, on the estate of M. Filliaud; it was propagated by M.
Corsaint, gardener to the Baron de Toisy, near Cuiseaux (Department of
Saone-et-Loire) and was introduced at Oullins (Department of Rhone) by
M. Massot, nurseryman. The name is seldom spelled correctly in American
fruit books, being either written with an apostrophe and s or with both
left off, these spellings coming from the supposition that the name comes
from that of a man, a mistake as the history shows. Oullins was placed
on the American Pomological Society catalog fruit list in 1875 but was
dropped when the catalog was revised in 1897.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, hardy,
    productive; branches ash-gray, somewhat rough, with numerous,
    large, raised lenticels; branchlets stout, the bark rough,
    medium to above in thickness, short, with short internodes,
    greenish-red changing to brownish-red, dull, lightly pubescent,
    overspread with faint bloom, with numerous, small lenticels;
    leaf-buds large, long, pointed, free; leaf-scars swollen.

    Leaves oval or obovate, two inches wide, four and one-quarter
    inches long, thick; upper surface dark green, covered with fine
    hairs, the midrib grooved; lower surface pale green, pubescent;
    apex acute or abruptly pointed, base acute, margin serrate
    or crenate, with small black glands; petiole three-quarters
    inch long, thick, pubescent, tinged red, with from two to four
    globose, greenish-brown glands variable in size, usually on the
    stalk.

    Blooming season medium to late, of average length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and one-quarter inches across,
    white, with a faint yellowish tinge; arranged on lateral spurs,
    singly or in pairs; pedicels eleven-sixteenths inch long,
    pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent;
    calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals broadly obovate, crenate,
    tapering to short, broad claws; anthers yellowish; filaments
    three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the stamens
    in length.

    Fruit early, season short; medium to below in size, roundish,
    halves equal; cavity shallow, below medium in width, abrupt;
    suture an indistinct line; apex flattened or depressed; color
    greenish-yellow changing to dull light yellow, overspread with
    thin bloom; dots numerous, small, whitish, inconspicuous,
    clustered about the apex; stem of medium thickness and length,
    adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, slightly astringent,
    separating readily; flesh greenish-yellow or pale yellow,
    somewhat dry, firm, sweet, not high in flavor; good; stone
    half-free or free, three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in
    size, broadly oval, flattened, roughened and pitted, blunt at
    the base and apex; ventral suture rather narrow, furrowed, with
    a distinct but not prominent wing; dorsal suture broadly and
    deeply grooved.


PACIFIC

[Illustration: PACIFIC]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 292. 1893. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._
    150. 1895. =3.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:31. 1897. =4.= _Oregon
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 474. 1898. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 40. 1899.
    =6.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 117. 1901. =7.= _Oregon Agriculturist_
    =17=: No. 24, 370. 1908.

    _Pacific_ 3. Pacific Prune 2, 3. Willamette 4, 5, 7. Willamette
    Prune 3.

No part of America is so well adapted to plum culture as the Pacific
Coast and especially the inter-mountain valleys in Oregon. From the
last-named State, though fruit-growing is a very recent development, a
number of meritorious plums have been added to pomology. One of the best
of these, as they grow in New York, is the Pacific, the fruits of which
are well shown in the color-plate. Few purple plums are more beautiful
than this in color and shape, few equal it in size and very few of its
color excel it in quality. The trees are unusually robust, perfectly
hardy and productive. In Oregon the Pacific has not proved a good
prune-making plum but is reported as standing eastern shipment very well,
which, if true, indicates that this plum would succeed as a market fruit
in New York. Pacific is well worth trying in New York as a commercial
variety.

This plum is hopelessly confused with the Willamette. The following is
an abridged account of the two fruits as written us by H. M. Williamson,
Secretary of the Oregon State Board of Horticulture, and one of the
leading authorities on fruit-growing on the Pacific Coast.

    “About 1875 Jesse Bullock of Oswego, Oregon, sent to Germany
    for pits of the Italian or Fellenberg prune, and planted the
    pits received in a nursery row. When the trees from these
    began to bear, Mr. C. E. Hoskins went to Mr. Bullock’s place,
    examined the fruit and selected trees which seemed promising,
    giving to each tree a number. From at least six of these trees
    he took scions, propagated them, and named them Bullock No. 1,
    Bullock No. 2, etc. He finally decided that only two of these,
    Bullock No. 1 and Bullock No. 6, were of sufficient value to
    justify their further propagation. Bullock No. 1 was named
    Champion and Bullock No. 6, Willamette. Mr. Hoskins told me
    these names were given by the State Horticultural Society, but
    I find no record of this action. He propagated and sold a good
    many trees of both varieties, but more of the Willamette than
    of the Champion.

    “Mr. Hoskins was strongly of the opinion that the Pacific is
    identical with the Willamette. I am as strongly of the opinion
    that they are distinct varieties. I base my opinion, first,
    upon the history of the origin of the Pacific given me by Henry
    Freeboro, Portland, Oregon, who introduced it; and, second,
    upon what appear to me to be marked differences in the two
    prunes. A number of years ago I went to Mr. Freeboro’s place
    when prunes were ripe and obtained from him a supply of Pacific
    prunes grown on trees propagated by him from scions taken from
    the original Pacific tree. I took these prunes to Springbrook
    and compared them with the Willamette grown on Mr. Hoskins’
    place. I was thoroughly convinced that the two were decidedly
    different in character, but Mr. Hoskins did not think so. I
    noticed first a marked difference in the habits of growth of
    the trees. The Pacific trees were of unusually vigorous growth
    and had a decided upright tendency. The Willamette trees
    were very similar to the Italian in vigor and had the rather
    spreading habit of growth of the Italian. The Pacific prunes
    are larger in size than the Willamette and vary much more in
    size. One of the most decided indications of difference is
    the far greater tendency to brown-rot of the fruit of the
    Pacific than is the case with the fruit of the Willamette.
    This has been observed when scions of the Willamette and of
    the Pacific have been grafted on the same tree for the purpose
    of comparison. I have never seen a well dried specimen of the
    Pacific, but this may have been the fault of the men who dried
    the specimens I have seen. The Willamette dries easily for a
    prune of its size and gives a larger percentage of dried to
    fresh fruit than the Italian, according to Mr. Hoskins.

    “I believe the Willamette is well worthy of more attention in
    the Willamette Valley, whereas the Pacific, on account of its
    extreme susceptibility to the brown-rot, does not appear to be
    a safe variety here, although when perfect it is a magnificent
    prune for eating fresh, and one of the very largest known. I am
    told that in eastern Oregon where climatic conditions keep out
    the brown-rot, the Pacific is proving one of the best varieties
    for shipping fresh. At the present time the two varieties are
    much confused. When the Pacific prune was introduced, Mr.
    Hoskins and other recognized authorities, pronounced it the
    Willamette, and nurserymen therefore obtained scions from
    Willamette trees and sold the propagated trees as Pacifies, and
    in a more limited way the reverse was done. The greater part of
    the trees supposed to be Pacifics are in fact Willamettes.”

At this Station we have the two plums under discussion, the Pacific
having been obtained from Fred E. Young, nurseryman, Rochester, New York,
and the Willamette, under the name Pacific, from the Oregon Wholesale
Nursery Company, Salem, Oregon. The differences between the two plums in
New York are essentially those given by Mr. Williamson as distinguishing
characters in Oregon.

    Tree of medium size, upright-spreading, open-topped, hardy,
    productive; branches ash-gray, smooth, with small, raised
    lenticels; branchlets above medium in thickness, short, with
    short internodes, greenish-red changing to brownish-red,
    covered with heavy bloom and sparingly pubescent, with
    indistinct small lenticels; leaf-buds plump, of medium size and
    length, obtuse, free.

    Leaves obovate, two inches wide, four inches long, the oldest
    thick and leathery; upper surface dark green, covered with fine
    hairs, with a widely and deeply grooved midrib; lower surface
    pale green, pubescent; apex acute or obtuse, base acute, margin
    crenate, with small dark glands; petiole seven-eighths inch
    long, thick, pubescent, tinged red, with from two to four
    large, globose, yellowish-green glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season of medium length; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one and three-sixteenths inches across, white;
    borne on lateral spurs and buds, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    five-sixteenths inch long, thick, pubescent; calyx-tube
    green, campanulate, pubescent only at the base; calyx-lobes
    broad, obtuse, lightly pubescent on both surfaces but heavily
    pubescent along the serrate margin, reflexed; petals oval,
    dentate, tapering to short, broad claws; stamens inclined to
    develop into rudimentary petals; anthers yellow; filaments
    seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the
    stamens in length.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season;
    two inches by one and five-eighths inches in size, ovate,
    halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, flaring; suture shallow,
    indistinct; apex bluntly pointed; color bluish, overspread with
    thick bloom; dots small, brown, conspicuous, clustered about
    the apex; stem thick, one-half inch long, pubescent, adhering
    well to the fruit; skin thin, tough, separating readily;
    flesh pale golden-yellow, juicy, firm, sweet, spicy; good;
    stone free, one inch by five-eighths inch in size, flattened,
    irregularly broad-oval, obliquely contracted at the base, blunt
    at the apex, with rough and pitted surfaces; ventral suture
    narrow, with numerous deep furrows, usually blunt; dorsal
    suture widely and deeply grooved.


PALATINE

_Prunus domestica_

This plum, scarcely known outside of two counties in New York, is of
distinctly good quality and if all accounts are true is fairly immune to
black-knot. In size and appearance the fruits are superior to many other
Reine Claude plums, with which it must be compared, so much so that the
variety is probably worth growing outside the region where the following
interesting history shows it has been cultivated for nearly a century and
a half.

Palatine, according to Mr. Washington Garlock of New York, originated in
1760 when a family of Palatines by the name of Best came from Germany
to the United States and settled in Livingston Manor (East Camps) now
Columbia County, New York. They brought with them plum pits which they
planted and from them secured one tree. In 1762 they moved to Schoharie
County, New York, taking with them the seedling tree. In their new home
they propagated the variety, which they named Palatine, and disseminated
it so industriously that it became thoroughly established throughout
Montgomery and Schoharie counties and attained great popularity because
of its apparent freedom from black-knot. That this popularity is merited
is attested by the fact that after one hundred and fifty years it is
still extensively grown in that vicinity.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, dense-topped, productive;
    branches thick; branchlets lightly pubescent; leaves flattened,
    slightly drooping, obovate, one and five-eighths inches wide,
    three and one-quarter inches long, thick, rugose; margin
    coarsely crenate, eglandular or with few, small glands; petiole
    pubescent, glandless or with one or two small glands; blooming
    season intermediate in time, short; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, more than one inch across, white with yellow tinge
    at the apex of the petals; borne singly; calyx-lobes thickly
    pubescent on both surfaces, strongly reflexed.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season; about
    one and one-half inches in diameter, roundish or roundish-oval,
    dull yellowish-green becoming greenish-yellow at full maturity,
    mottled and indistinctly blushed on the sunny side, overspread
    with thin bloom; skin thin, slightly sour; flesh light
    golden-yellow, juicy, fibrous, firm, sweet, pleasant in flavor;
    good to very good; stone dark colored, free or nearly so,
    seven-eighths inch by one-half inch in size, oval, with thickly
    pitted surfaces; ventral suture blunt or with a short, narrow
    wing; dorsal suture wide, shallow.


PAUL EARLY

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _N. Y. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:611. 1893. =2.= _W. N. Y.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =42=:83. 1897.

    _Paul’s Earliest_ 1, 2.

This variety seems to be under test only at this Station where it
has fruited for a number of years. It is so similar to Early Rivers,
a variety of small account in America, as to be an almost worthless
addition to the list of plums. Paul Early originated with and was sent
out by J. M. Paul, North Adams, Massachusetts, about 1888.

    Tree very large, vigorous, round-topped, dense, very
    productive; branches covered with numerous fruit-spurs;
    branchlets twiggy, thickly pubescent; leaf-buds strongly
    appressed; leaves flattened, obovate or oval, two and
    three-eighths inches wide, four inches long; margin crenate,
    with few, small, dark glands; petiole reddish, pubescent,
    glandless or with one or two large glands; blooming season
    intermediate in time, short; flowers appearing before the
    leaves, one inch across; borne in scattering clusters, usually
    in pairs; pedicels very thick and pubescent; anthers tinged red.

    Fruit very early, season short; one and three-eighths inches
    by one and one-quarter inches in size, roundish-oval, dark
    purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; skin tender,
    slightly sour; flesh greenish-yellow becoming yellowish,
    tender, sweet near the surface but sour next the pit, mild;
    good; stone clinging, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch
    in size, irregular-oval, with roughened and thickly pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture prominent, seldom winged; dorsal
    suture with a narrow, shallow groove.


PEACH

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _N. E. Farmer Dict._ 266. 1797. =2.= Prince _Treat.
    Hort._ 27. 1828. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man_. =2=:106. 1832. =4.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 307. 1845. =5.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:113,
    114 fig. 34, 147. 1846. =6.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846.
    =7.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 335, 336 fig. 262. 1849. =8.=
    _Horticulturist_ =6=:132. 1851. =9.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 422.
    1854. =10.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 367. 1857. =11.= Hooper
    _W. Fr. Book_ 250. 1857. =12.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 86. 1862.
    =13.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 375. 1866. =14.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =6=:73. Pl. XXXVII. 1866-73. =15.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No.
    7. 1871. =16.= _Gard. Chron._ N. S. =17=:144. 1882. =17.=
    _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 466. 1883. =18.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_
    353. 1891. =19.= _Wash. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 136. 1893. 20.
    _Guide Prat._ 156, 361. 1895. =21.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_
    462 fig. 1906.

    _Apricot Plum_ 5 incor. _Caledonian_ 15, 20. _Calvels
    Pfirschenpflaume_ 14, 20. _D’Abricot (of Streets of Paris)_
    20. _Duane’s Purple_ 5 incor, 6, 11. _Howells Large_ 15, 20,
    21. _Jenkin’s Imperial_ 15, 20. _Large Peach_ 16. Large Peach
    Plum 3. _Nectarine_ 15, 20. _Nectarine Rouge_ 21. _Peach_ 15,
    20. _Peach Plum_ 3, 5, 14, 20. Peach Plum 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
    17. Pêche 14, 15, 20, 21. _Pêche de Calvel_ 20. _Prune Pêche_
    3, 7, 9, 10, 14, 18. Prune Pêche 4, 5, 6, 20. _Prune-Pêche De
    Calvel_ 14. _Reine-Claude De Berger_ 13, 16. _Rothe Nektarine_
    15, ?20.

Peach, the largest early plum, is not high in quality but is justly
esteemed where it can be grown for its earliness, large size and handsome
appearance. Unfortunately this variety is capricious beyond most other
plums as to climate and soils and refuses to thrive unless its needs are
very well supplied in the matter of environment. In America it seems to
find congenial soil and climate only on the Pacific Coast, and even then
refuses to bear well except on strong, rich soils. In New York, even when
grown upon soils similar to those upon which it does well elsewhere,
the fruits are few and lacking in quality, though the trees are large,
vigorous and about all that could be desired in a good plum tree. It may
be possible to grow Peach in favorable locations in the East; in which
case, a plum of its appearance and quality, coming as early in the season
as it ripens, would make a most desirable addition to the list of plums.
From its behavior elsewhere the situation that would suit it best in New
York is a sunny exposure with a warm, rich, clay loam.

The origin of the Peach is unknown. Poiteau was unable to find any
reference to it in the Eighteenth Century European literature and
thought, therefore, that it must have been unknown to this period. Samuel
Deane mentions a Peach plum in New England in 1797. It is doubtful,
however, whether it is the Peach of this discussion, the name having been
applied indiscriminately to several varieties, the Goliath, Nectarine
and Apricot in particular. Prince, in 1832, described a Large Peach Plum
which he said “had been introduced a few years since” but as his variety
is oval and a clingstone, it is not the same as the Peach of Poiteau, the
one discussed here, this plum being nearly round and a freestone. Judge
James C. Duane of Schenectady, New York, seems to have first imported
the Peach plum, with several others, from France, in 1820. The name of
this variety was lost during the shipment and as the invoice called
for an Apricot Plum, the names Apricot and Duane’s Plum became locally
applied to what afterwards turned out to be the Peach. C. H. Tomlinson
of Schenectady and A. J. Downing in 1846 made a careful study of these
imported plums and showed conclusively that this Apricot or Duane’s Plum
was the Peach of the French. In 1862, the American Pomological Society
added Peach to the fruit catalog list and recommended it for the eastern
and western sections of New York.

    Tree large, very vigorous, spreading, round or flat-topped,
    hardy, medium in productiveness; branches stocky, smooth, dark
    ash-brown, with lenticels of medium number and size; branchlets
    thick, with internodes one inch long, light brown, covered with
    short, heavy pubescence; leaf-buds large, of medium length,
    conical.

    Leaves large, oval, of average thickness; upper surface dark
    green; lower surface pale green, pubescent; apex obtuse, margin
    doubly crenate, with small glands; petiole three-quarters inch
    long, thick, pubescent, with a trace of red, usually with two,
    small, globose, greenish glands at the base of the leaf.

    Fruit early; thick-set, without a neck, one and seven-eighths
    inches in diameter, roundish, slightly angular, halves equal;
    cavity deep, wide, compressed; suture shallow, distinct; apex
    flattened or depressed; color dark purplish-red, overspread
    with thin bloom; dots numerous, large, conspicuous; stem
    eleven-sixteenths inch long, glabrous, adhering well to the
    fruit; skin tough, adhering; flesh golden-yellow, medium
    juicy, firm, subacid, mild; good; stone free, one inch by
    three-quarters inch in size, roundish-oval, flattened, with
    rough and pitted surfaces, blunt at the base and apex; ventral
    suture wide, prominent, often distinctly winged; dorsal suture
    with a wide, deep groove.


PEARL

[Illustration: PEARL]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 5. 1898. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =21=:36. 1900.
    =3.= _Waugh Plum Cult._ 118. 1901.

One can grow seedlings of some plums with considerable certainty of
getting respectable offspring—plums worth having in an orchard—but the
chances of growing a variety of superior qualities are small indeed.
It is a piece of good luck, a matter almost wholly of luck, when, as in
this case, but one parent is known, to secure as fine a fruit as the
Pearl plum. The variety now under notice is one to be pleased with if it
came as a chance out of thousands; its rich, golden color, large size,
fine form, melting flesh and sweet, luscious flavor, place it among the
best dessert plums. In the mind of the writer and of those who have
assisted in describing the varieties for _The Plums of New York_, it is
unsurpassed in quality by any other plum. The tree-characters, however,
do not correspond in desirability with those of the fruits. The trees,
while of medium size and seemingly as vigorous and healthy as any, are
unproductive. In none of the several years they have been fruiting at
this Station have they borne a large crop. If elsewhere this defect does
not show, the variety becomes at once one of great value. The fruits
of Pearl are said to cure into delicious prunes—to be readily believed
by one who has eaten the fresh fruits. This variety ought to be very
generally tried by commercial plum-growers and is recommended to all who
grow fruit for pleasure.

Pearl is a recent addition to the list of plums and though its history is
well known its parentage is in doubt. In 1898, Luther Burbank introduced
the variety as a new prune grown from the seed of the well-known
Agen. The male parent is not known but from the fruit and tree, one
at once surmises that it was some variety of the Reine Claude group,
its characters being so like those of the plum named that no one could
suspect that it came from the seed of a plum so far removed from the
Reine Claude as the Agen.

    Tree of medium size, vigorous, vasiform, dense-topped, hardy,
    unproductive; branches ash-gray, with numerous, small,
    raised lenticels; branchlets twiggy, thick, long, with long
    internodes, greenish-red changing to brownish-red, very
    pubescent early in the season becoming less so at maturity,
    with numerous, small, raised lenticels; leaf-buds large, above
    medium in length, conical, appressed; leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves broadly oval, one and seven-eighths inches wide, three
    and one-half inches long, thick, leathery; upper surface dark
    green, rugose, covered with fine hairs, with a grooved midrib;
    lower surface pale green, pubescent; apex abruptly pointed,
    base abrupt, margin serrate or crenate, with small, black
    glands; petiole seven-eighths inch long, thick, pubescent,
    tinged red, glandless or with from one to three small, globose,
    brownish glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, showy on account of their size,
    averaging one and five-eighths inches across, white, with a
    tinge of yellow at the apex of the petals; borne on lateral
    spurs and buds, usually singly; pedicels one-half inch long,
    thick, strongly pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, pubescent
    on both surfaces, glandular-serrate and with marginal hairs,
    strongly reflexed; petals obovate or oblong, entire, tapering
    to short, broad claws; anthers yellow; filaments nearly
    one-half inch long; pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season;
    one and three-quarters inches by one and one-half inches
    in size, roundish-oval, compressed, halves unequal; cavity
    shallow, narrow, abrupt; suture a line; apex depressed; color
    golden-yellow, obscurely striped and splashed with dull green,
    mottled, overspread with thin bloom; dots numerous, small,
    whitish, inconspicuous, clustered about the apex; stem thick,
    three-quarters inch long, thickly pubescent, adhering well to
    the fruit; skin tough, separating readily; flesh deep yellow,
    juicy, a little coarse and fibrous, firm but tender, very
    sweet, with a pleasant, mild flavor, aromatic; very good to
    best; stone clinging, one inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    long-oval, slightly necked at the base, bluntly acute at the
    apex, with rough surfaces; ventral suture broad, blunt; dorsal
    suture with a wide, shallow groove.


PETERS

[Illustration: PETERS]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ 27. 1828. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._
    151. 1831. =3.= _Cultivator_ =8=:52 fig. 1860. =4.= Thomas Am.
    _Fruit Cult._ 375 fig. 392. 1867. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    937. 1869. =6.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 289. 1889. =7.= _Mich.
    Sta. Bul._ =103=:35. 1894. =8.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:190 fig.
    45, 194. 1897. =9.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 118 fig. 1901. =10.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 321, 322 fig. 1903.

    Peter’s Large Yellow 1, 2. _Peter’s Yellow Gage_ 10. Peters’
    Yellow Gage 3, 4, 6, 7. Peter’s Yellow Gage 5, 8. _Peters
    Yellow Gage_ 9.

Peters is an excellent old plum probably ranking in quality with the best
varieties in the group to which it belongs—a sufficient recommendation
to make it desirable in any home collection of fruit. This variety,
however, is not equal in appearance to any one of several other sorts in
its group, lacking size and color. The trees are large, hardy, robust
and healthy, surpassing in these respects most of the other Reine Claude
sorts. The tree-characters have made this variety a prime favorite in
western New York for two generations, one pomologist after another
recommending it for this section. The fruits are not sufficiently
attractive to sell well, however, and the variety is now going out of
cultivation except for the amateur. While a very good plum it does
not appear to be worth growing in competition with Hand, Washington,
McLaughlin, Jefferson, Spaulding and the latest comer among these
high-quality plums, Pearl.

Of the origin of this old plum we have no certain information. William
Prince, the first pomologist to mention it, gave a brief description
of the variety in his “A Short Treatise on Horticulture” published in
1828 but says nothing in regard to its history. In 1831 the London
Horticultural Society listed it in its fruit catalog but otherwise the
variety is not mentioned in the European pomologies.

    Tree very large, vigorous, round and dense-topped, hardy,
    productive; branches thick, ash-gray, smooth except for the
    numerous, rather large, raised lenticels; branchlets thick,
    short, with short internodes, greenish-red changing to dark
    brownish-drab, dull, pubescent throughout the season, with
    numerous, inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds medium in
    size and length, pointed, free.

    Leaves flattened, obovate or oval, two inches wide, four
    inches long; upper surface covered with numerous hairs, with
    a shallow groove on the midrib; lower surface silvery-green,
    heavily pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or acute, base rather
    abrupt, margin slightly crenate, eglandular or with few, small,
    dark glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, thick, tinged
    red, pubescent, glandless or with one or two small, globose or
    reniform, greenish-brown glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing with the leaves, one and one-eighth inches wide,
    white, creamy at the apex; borne on lateral spurs or buds,
    singly or in pairs; pedicels about one inch long, below
    medium in thickness, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    obconic, pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, pubescent on
    both surfaces, glandular-serrate and with fine marginal hairs,
    reflexed; petals roundish-oval or obovate, dentate to slightly
    crenate; anthers yellow, with a slight trace of red; filaments
    three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit late, season rather short; about one and one-half inches
    in diameter, roundish, compressed, halves equal; cavity very
    shallow, narrow, abrupt; suture shallow; apex flattened or
    depressed; color dull yellowish-green, often blushed or mottled
    on the sunny side, covered with thick bloom; dots numerous,
    large, whitish, conspicuous; stem one and one-eighth inches
    long, pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, tough,
    separating readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, somewhat
    fibrous, firm but tender, sweet next the skin but sour near the
    center, with pleasant flavor; very good; stone clinging, one
    inch by three-quarters inch in size, oval, turgid, somewhat
    acute at the base and apex, with pitted surfaces; ventral
    suture wide, indistinctly furrowed, often with a short wing;
    dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


POND

[Illustration: POND]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 151. 1831. =2.= _Mag. Hort._
    =9=:165. 1843. =3.= _Horticulturist_ =6=:560 fig. 1851. =4.=
    _Gard. Chron._ =13=:228. 1853. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 214.
    1856. =6.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ 9, fig. 1857. =7.= _Cultivator_
    =8=:52 fig. 1860. =8.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 343. 1867.
    =9.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 937 fig. 1869. =10.= _Pom.
    France_ =7=: No. 2. 1871. =11.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:5, fig. 3.
    1886-73. =12.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 466. 1883. =13.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 717. 1884. =14.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 292.
    1885-86. =15.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 442. 1889. =16.= _Mich.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 465. 1893. =17.= _Guide Prat._ 155, 366. 1895.
    =18.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:29 fig. 1897. =19.= _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =131=:190. 1897. =20.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    92. 1899. =21.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:160, Pl. XVI fig. 1899.
    =22.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =134=:44. 1902. =23.= Budd-Hansen _Am.
    Hort. Man._ 322. 1903.

    _Chili_ (Kerr unpublished). _Diamant_ 15 incor.
    _Diamantpflaume_ 17 incor. _Dorr’s Favorite_ 12. English Pond’s
    Seedling 3. _Farleigh Castle_ 13, 15. _Fonthill_ 4, 9, 10, 12,
    13, 15, 17, 23. _Gros Prune_ 14. _Grosse Prune d’Agen_ 18,
    20. Hungarian 18. _Hungarian_ 20. _Hungarian Prune_ 16, 19.
    Hungarian Prune 14. _Oswego_ 20. Oswego 19. Plum de l’Inde ?3.
    _Plum de l’Inde_ 9, 15. _Pond’s Purple_ 9, 10, 13, 15, 17.
    _Pond’s Seedling_ (English) 11, 14, 17. Pond’s Seedling 1,
    2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 16, 21. Pond’s Seedling 14,
    15, 17, 18, 19, 23. Pond Seedling 20. Pond’s Samling 15, 17.
    _Pourprée de Pond_ 10, 15, 17. _Pride of Waterloo_ 20. _Semis
    de Pond_ 10, 15. Semis de Pond 17.

Pond is preeminent among plums for its large size. It is distinguished
also by its form and its color, both being pleasing as well as
distinctive. The three characters, size, form and color make this one
of the handsomest of all plums. Despite the efforts of the color-plate
makers, the peculiar red of this plum is not well shown in the
illustration—to the disparagement of the fruit. At one time Pond was very
largely grown in New York but the fruits are not as perfect, grown here,
as on the Pacific Coast and the trees are not regular in bearing. The
eye is pleased with Pond but the palate is sadly disappointed; at best
it is not even second-rate. The fruits, however, ship and keep well, as
is demonstrated by the large quantities of this variety annually sent
from California to the East for sale on fruit-stands where its showiness
perennially beguiles the uninformed fruit-buyer. There is a fine
opportunity for some one to cross this splendid-appearing plum with one
of good quality in the hope of getting an offspring as handsome but of
better quality.

This variety was obtained from seed by Mr. Pond, an English amateur
grower of fruits, concerning whom there seems to be no further
information. The London Horticultural Society mentioned the variety as
long ago as in 1831. Another Mr. Pond, a nurseryman in Massachusetts,
grew a variety very similar in appearance to the English plum and
permitted his name to be given it to the great confusion of the
nomenclature of the two. The Hungarian prune of the Pacific Coast is
Pond, why so-called does not appear; with this as with several other
plums the Pacific Coast fruit-growers persist in using a name known to
have been wrongly applied to an old and well-known variety elsewhere
called rightly. Oswego, a supposed seedling grown in Oswego, New York,
is identical with the Pond as tested by this Experiment Station and by
local growers. The American Pomological Society placed this fruit on its
catalog list in 1856.

    Tree of medium size, vigorous, upright, hardy, variable in
    productiveness; branches light gray, smooth, with small,
    raised lenticels; branchlets of medium thickness and length,
    with internodes of average length, greenish-red changing to
    brownish-drab, dull, sparingly pubescent, with inconspicuous
    small lenticels; leaf-buds large, long, conical, free;
    leaf-scars plump, often much enlarged at the apex of the twigs.

    Leaves somewhat folded backward, oval, two and one-quarter
    inches wide, four inches long, thick, leathery; upper surface
    dark green, finely pubescent, rugose, with a grooved midrib;
    lower surface silvery-green, pubescent; apex abruptly pointed
    or acute, base abrupt, margin crenate or serrate, with small
    dark glands; petiole five-eighths inch long, thick, pubescent,
    tinged red, with one or two globose, yellowish glands variable
    in size, usually on the stalk.

    Season of bloom intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and five-sixteenths inches
    across, white; borne in thin clusters on lateral spurs and
    buds, singly or in pairs; pedicels thirteen-sixteenths inch
    long, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, lightly pubescent on both
    surfaces, margins with few glands and hairs, reflexed; petals
    roundish, crenate, tapering to short, broad claws; filaments
    seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to or
    shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit late, season short; two inches by one and three-quarters
    inches in size, obovate or oval, frequently with a slight
    neck, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, abrupt; suture
    very shallow, often a line; apex roundish; color varies from
    reddish-purple to purplish-red, overspread with thick bloom;
    dots numerous, small, reddish-brown, obscure, larger in size
    but fewer in number towards the base; stem thick, seven-eighths
    inch long, heavily pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin
    tough, separating readily; flesh attractive golden-yellow, not
    very juicy, fibrous, firm, of average sweetness, mild, not
    highly flavored; fair in quality; stone semi-free to free, one
    and one-sixteenths inches by nine-sixteenths inch in size,
    long-oval, flattened, the surfaces roughened and deeply pitted,
    tapering towards the base and apex; ventral suture heavily
    furrowed, with a distinct but not prominent wing; dorsal suture
    usually widely and deeply grooved.


POOLE PRIDE

_Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 108. 1885. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =38=:50. 1892. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 334. 1894. =4.= _Wis.
    Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 53. 1897. =5.= _Ibid._ =87=:15. 1901. =6.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 186. 1901. =7.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
    299. 1903. =8.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:245 fig., 256, 257. 1905.

    Kroh 1, 6. _Kroh_ 3, 7. Poole 2, 7. _Poole_ 6. Poole’s Pride 3,
    4, 5. _Poole’s Pride_ 2, 6, 7.

As compared with other native plums growing on the grounds at this
Station, Poole Pride has considerable merit. It is very attractive in
appearance, it seems to have all the characters of a long-keeping and
a good-shipping sort of its species and the trees are large, vigorous,
hardy, healthy and productive. It is, however, lacking in the very
important character of flavor though the texture of the flesh is all that
could be desired. Its very peculiar flavor, incomparable with any other
plum or fruit, while disagreeable to the writer, might be liked by some.
The flesh of this plum is so transparent that the pit can be readily seen
when the skin is removed. To those growing native plums, Poole Pride is
recommended for trial.

This variety was raised by P. H. Kroh, Anna, Illinois, and was exhibited
by him under the name Kroh at the American Pomological Society meeting in
1885. Three years later the same plum was introduced by Stark Brothers,
Louisiana, Missouri, under the name of Poole’s Pride. The latter name has
been so much more widely used that it has been retained even though the
former is correct according to the rule of priority.

    Tree large, vigorous, open and round-topped, hardy, productive,
    healthy; branches rough, zigzag, with few thorns, dark
    ash-gray, with numerous, small lenticels; branchlets twiggy,
    slender, above medium in length, with short internodes,
    greenish-red changing to light chestnut-red, glabrous, with
    numerous, very conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds
    small, short, obtuse, plump, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, ovate or obovate, peach-like, one and
    three-eighths inches wide, three and one-half inches long,
    thin and leathery; upper surface dull red late in the season,
    smooth, glossy, with a narrow groove on the midrib; lower
    surface lightly pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base rather
    abrupt, margin finely crenate, with small dark glands; petiole
    seven-eighths inch long, slender, hairy, light purplish-red,
    with from one to four small, globose, reddish-brown glands on
    the stalk.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, five-eighths inch across, white; borne in clusters on
    short lateral spurs and buds; pedicels nine-sixteenths inch
    long, very slender, glabrous, green; calyx-tube greenish,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, heavily
    pubescent within and along the margin which is serrate and
    covered with reddish glands, erect; petals small, ovate
    or roundish, crenate, tapering into long pubescent claws;
    anthers yellowish; filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil
    glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit early, season very long; one inch in diameter,
    roundish-oval, not compressed, halves equal; cavity very
    shallow and narrow; suture a distinct line; apex roundish;
    color clear, dark, currant-red, with thin bloom; dots few,
    large, light russet, conspicuous, clustered about the apex;
    stem slender, five-eighths inch long, glabrous, but overspread
    with a grayish bloom, adhering to the fruit; skin thin,
    tough, separating from the pulp; flesh semi-transparent, dark
    amber-yellow, very juicy, fibrous, tender and melting, sweet,
    with a strong, peculiar flavor not pleasant; of fair quality;
    stone adhering, five-eighths inch by three-eighths inch in
    size, long-oval, slightly flattened, compressed at the base,
    pointed at the apex, roughish; ventral suture blunt, faintly
    ridged; dorsal suture acute, entire.


POTTAWATTAMIE

[Illustration: POTTAWATTAMIE]

_Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 287. 1887. =2.= _Pop. Gard._ =3=:27
    fig. 1887. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:64. 86. 1892. =4.=
    _Mich Sta. Bul._ =123=:20. 1895. =5.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =31=:346.
    1895. =6.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:53. 1897. =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 25. 1897. =8.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:156. 1899. =9.=
    _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:287. 1900. =10.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 199
    fig. 1901. =11.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:279. 1904.

The plum under notice is possibly of greater cultural value than any
other of its species especially for northern latitudes. It is of high
quality for a native plum, the texture of the fruit being especially
pleasing in eating, and though melting and juicy it keeps and ships
very well because of a tough skin. It escapes both the curculio and the
brown-rot to a higher degree than most of its kind. The trees, though
dwarfish at maturity, are vigorous, productive and among the hardiest
of the Munsoniana plums, growing without danger of winter injury to
tree or bud as far north as the forty-fourth parallel. Pottawattamie is
deservedly one of the best known of the native plums and if varieties of
its species are to be grown in New York, is as desirable as any.

Pottawattamie, according to the most authoritative accounts, was taken
from Tennessee to Iowa with a lot of Miner trees. It came under the
notice of J. B. Rice, Council Bluffs, Iowa, in 1875, and was introduced
by him and named after one of the counties of his State.

    Tree medium in size, strong and vigorous when young becoming
    spreading and somewhat dwarfish when older, round-topped, hardy
    at Geneva, usually productive; branches dark brown, zigzag,
    thorny, roughened by the numerous, raised lenticels of various
    sizes which are often narrow and much elongated; branchlets
    slender, long, with internodes of medium length, greenish-red
    changing to dark chestnut-red, glabrous, with numerous,
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds small, short,
    obtuse, free.

    Leaves flat or folded upward, lanceolate, peach-like, one and
    one-eighth inches wide, three and one-quarter inches long,
    thin; upper surface light green, reddish late in the season,
    smooth, glossy, with a grooved midrib; lower surface pale
    green, lightly pubescent along the midrib and larger veins;
    apex taper-pointed, base abrupt, margin finely serrate or
    crenate, with small, reddish glands; petiole one inch long,
    slender, tinged red, thinly pubescent, glandless or with from
    one to five very small, globose, reddish-yellow glands usually
    on the stalk.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, five-eighths inch across, creamy-white as the buds
    unfold changing to whitish, with a disagreeable odor; borne
    in clusters from lateral buds, in threes, fours or fives;
    pedicels five-eighths inch long, very slender, glabrous,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, broadly obconic, glabrous,
    calyx-lobes narrow, somewhat acute, pubescent on the inner
    surface, serrate, with reddish glands and hairy margin, erect;
    petals small, oval, slightly toothed, narrowly clawed; anthers
    yellowish; filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil glabrous,
    shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit early, season of medium length; variable in size ranging
    from seven-eighths inch to one and one-eighth inches in
    diameter, roundish-oval, slightly compressed, halves equal;
    cavity very shallow and narrow, abrupt; suture indistinct;
    apex roundish or depressed; color clear currant-red, with
    thin bloom; dots few, medium to large, whitish, somewhat
    conspicuous, clustered about the apex; stem very slender,
    three-quarters inch long, glabrous, adhering poorly to the
    fruit; skin tough, cracking under unfavorable conditions,
    separating readily; flesh deep yellow, juicy, fibrous, tender
    and melting, sweet next the skin but sour at the center, of
    pleasant flavor; fair to good in quality; stone clinging
    closely, five-eighths inch by three-eighths inch in size,
    narrow, long-oval, turgid, smooth, flattened and necked at the
    base, abruptly sharp-tipped at the apex; ventral suture acute,
    inconspicuous; dorsal suture blunt, faintly grooved.


PURPLE GAGE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Pom. Mag._ =3=:129, Pl. 1830. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc.
    Cat._ 152, 153. 1831. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 308 fig.
    127. 1845. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1.= 1846. =5.= Thomas
    _Am. Fruit Cult._ 339. 1849. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 54.
    1852. =7.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =3=:71, Pl. 1855. =8.= Thompson
    _Gard. Ass’t_ 519, Pl. 1. 1859. =9.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 377.
    1866. =10.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 9. 1871. =11.= Mas _Le
    Verger_ =6=:3 fig. 2. 1866-73. =12.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_
    367. 1887. =13.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 452. 1889. =14.= _Guide
    Prat._ 155, 364. 1895.

    _Blaue Reine-Claude_ 10, 11, 13 incor., 14. _Die Violette
    Königin Claudia_ 13. _Die Violette Königin Claudie_ 1. _Die
    Violette Köning Claudie_ 3. _Die Violette oder blaue Renoclode_
    10, 14. _Die Violette oder Blaue Reneclode_ 11, 13. _Purple
    Gage_ 2, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. Prune Reine Claude Violette
    4, 10. _Reine-Claude Alex. Dumas_ 14. Reine-Claude Violette
    2, 7, 8, 11, 12, 14. _Reine-Claude Violette_ 1, 3, 5, 9, 13.
    _Violet Queen Claude_ 3, 5. _Violet Gage_ 8, 9, 10, 12, 13,
    14. Violette Reine-Claude 13. Violet Gage 2. _Violette Queen
    Claude_ 13. _Violet oder Blaue Reneclode_ 13.

Purple Gage is worthy of attention as one of the best flavored of all
purple plums. In all but color of fruit it is a true Gage, to say which
is a sufficient characterization as to quality. In size it averages
larger than most of the Gages or Reine Claude plums, and in color is a
rich dark purple as attractive as any of the purple plums. Another good
quality of the fruit is that of hanging to the tree until it shrivels
at which time it is richest in flavor. Unfortunately the trees, while
averaging very well in other respects, are not productive and the variety
cannot be recommended for money-making though it well deserves a place in
home orchards.

Purple Gage is a European variety of unknown origin, though in the
_Catalogue descriptif des fruits adoptes par le Congres pomologique_ for
1887, it is said to have been raised by M. Galopin of Liege, Belgium.
As it was not mentioned by Duhamel in his _Traite des Arbres Fruitiers_
in 1768, it is thought to have been unknown at that date. English and
American authors generally apply the name Purple Gage to this variety but
in continental countries the name Reine Claude Violette is most common.
It was imported into America early in the last century and in 1852 was
added to the recommended list of fruits in the American Pomological
Society catalog.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, hardy, not very productive;
    branches numerous, light ash-gray, with few, small, raised
    lenticels; branchlets thick, above medium in length, with
    rather short internodes, greenish-red changing to brownish-red,
    marked with much scarf-skin, glabrous throughout the season,
    with few, small, slightly-raised lenticels; leaf-buds of
    medium size and length, conical, appressed; leaf-scars greatly
    enlarged.

    Leaves folded upward, oval, one and three-quarters inches
    wide, three and one-half inches long, thick, stiff; upper
    surface dark green, distinctly rugose, lightly pubescent, with
    a shallow groove on the midrib; lower surface silvery-green,
    covered with thick pubescence; apex abruptly pointed or acute,
    base rather abrupt, margin serrate or crenate, eglandular or
    with small dark glands; petiole three-quarters inch long,
    thick, greenish, pubescent, glandless or with one or two rather
    large, globose, yellowish-green glands variable in position.

    Blooming season late, of medium length; flowers appearing with
    the leaves, nearly one and one-quarter inches across, white;
    borne from lateral buds, usually singly; pedicels five-eighths
    inch long, thick, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, lightly
    pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, reflexed;
    petals obovate or oval, crenate, short-clawed; anthers yellow;
    filaments nearly one-half inch long; pistil glabrous except at
    the base, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season; one
    and one-half inches by one and three-eighths inches in size,
    roundish or ovate, slightly compressed, halves equal; cavity
    shallow, narrow, abrupt; suture very shallow, often a line;
    apex variable in shape; color dark purple or purplish-black,
    overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous, russet, conspicuous
    when the bloom is removed, clustered about the apex; stem
    five-eighths inch long, thinly pubescent, adhering well to
    the fruit; skin thin, separating readily; flesh dull yellow,
    juicy, somewhat fibrous, firm but tender, sweet, of pleasant
    flavor; very good; stone semi-clinging, seven-eighths inch
    by five-eighths inch in size, irregular-oval, flat, often
    contracted at the base into a long narrow neck, blunt at
    the apex, with markedly rough and pitted surfaces; ventral
    suture swollen, rather wide, distinctly furrowed, often with a
    prominent wing; dorsal suture with a wide and deep groove.


QUACKENBOSS

[Illustration: QUACKENBOSS]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 393. 1857. =2.= _Cultivator_
    =6=:269 fig. 1858. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 345. 1867.
    =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 941. 1869. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 24. 1871. =6.= Mas. _Pom. Gen._ =2=:151, fig. 76. 1873.
    =7.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 415. 1883. =8.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =103=:34, fig. 6. 1894. =9.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 52.
    1895. =10.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:191, fig. 40 II. 1897.
    =11.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 119. 1901. =12.= _Va. Sta. Bul._
    =134=:44. 1902.

    Quackenbos 9, 12.

Though not a leading variety, Quackenboss is a prominent one in the
list of commercial sorts for New York. Its fruits possess to a high
degree the characters which make a good market plum; they are of large
size, averaging nearly an inch and a half in diameter; round-oval, a
better shape for the markets than the prune shapes; very prepossessing
in color—a handsome, dark purple with heavy bloom; the flesh is tender
and juicy with a sweet, pleasant flavor making it one of the good
purple plums, though not one of the best in quality. The tree is large,
vigorous, hardy, with a round and spreading top. This gives it great
bearing capacity but though productive in the Station orchard, the
variety does not have the reputation of being fruitful and fails chiefly
as a commercial sort for this reason. It is a late-maturing variety and
comes on the market at a time when plums are wanted for home canning, the
demand for this purpose, for which it is most suitable, helping greatly
its sale. The variety has two peculiarities; the petals are comparatively
distinct from each other giving the flower, or a tree in flower, an odd
appearance; and the leaves are remarkably variable in size.

It is not quite certain when or where this variety first came to
notice. C. Reagles, a competent authority, of Schenectady, New York, in
describing the Quackenboss for _The Cultivator_ in 1858, says “There
is a seedling tree of this identical sort in the garden of Mr. S. C.
Groot of this city, which is about thirty years old.” If true, this
puts its origin in Schenectady at about 1828. But beyond question a Mr.
Quackenboss of Greenbush, New York, introduced the variety, though some
years later, and it has taken his name. In 1871, the American Pomological
Society placed the Quackenboss on its recommended fruit list.

    Tree very large and vigorous, round-topped, hardy, productive;
    branches numerous, ash-gray, the trunk rough but the limbs
    smooth, with smallish raised lenticels; branchlets thick, with
    long internodes, greenish-red changing to brownish-drab over
    red, dull, pubescent, with numerous, small lenticels; leaf-buds
    of medium size and length, pointed, free.

    Leaves flattened, obovate or oval, variable in size averaging
    one and seven-eighths inches wide by three and five-eighths
    inches long; upper surface very dark green, nearly glabrous,
    with a grooved midrib; lower surface pale green, pubescent;
    apex obtuse, base tapering, margin finely serrate, with small
    black glands; petiole five-eighths inch long, pubescent,
    faintly tinged red, glandless or with from one to four small,
    globose, greenish-yellow glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across,
    white, with a yellow tinge at the tips of the opening buds;
    scattered on lateral spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels
    three-quarters inch long, above medium in thickness, finely
    pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes obtuse, lightly pubescent, glandular-serrate,
    reflexed; petals obovate, crenate, with broad claws of medium
    length; anthers yellow with a reddish tinge; filaments
    seven-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous except on the
    ovary, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit late, season short; one and five-eighths inches by one
    and three-eighths inches in size, roundish-oval, compressed
    slightly, halves equal; cavity narrow, abrupt; suture shallow,
    often lacking; apex roundish or depressed; color bluish-black,
    with thick bloom; dots numerous, small, yellowish-brown,
    inconspicuous; stem three-quarters inch long, pubescent,
    adhering well to the fruit; skin tender, somewhat astringent;
    flesh deep yellow, juicy, tender, sweet, of pleasant, mild
    flavor; good; stone semi-free, one inch by five-eighths inch
    in size, flattened, irregular-oval, tapering to a long, narrow
    neck at the base, bluntly acute at the apex, with rough and
    pitted surfaces; ventral suture prominent, heavily furrowed,
    distinctly ridged; dorsal suture acute, often with a narrow,
    indistinct, shallow groove.


RED APRICOT

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:52, 54. 1771. =2.= Kraft _Pom.
    Aust._ =2=:27, Tab. 172 fig. 1. 1796. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:72. 1832. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1.= 1846. =5.=
    Goodrich _N. Fr. Cult._ 83. 1849. =6.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:127,
    fig. 64. 1873. =7.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 720. 1884. =8.= Mathieu
    _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889. =9.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 474.
    1894.

    Abricot Rouge 1. _Abricote Rouge_ 3. Apricot Plum 5. Abricotée
    Rouge 6. _Abricot Rouge_ 6, 7, 8. _Abricotée Rouge_ 7, 8. Die
    Aprikosenpflaume 2. _Fürstenzeller Pflaume_ 8. _Fürstenzeller
    Reine-Claude_ 6. _Prune d’Abricot Rouge_ 1, 8. _Prune
    d’Abricos_ 2. Prune d’Abricot rouge 1. Prune Abricotée Rouge 4.
    Red Apricot Plum 3. _Rothe Aprikosenpflaume_ 6. _Red Apricot_
    6, 8. Rote Aprikosenpflaume 8. Rote Aprikosenzwetsche 9.

This plum, well known in Europe, is probably not now grown in America
and it may not deserve recognition here except for its historical
interest. Red Apricot is probably an inferior off-shoot of the Apricot
plum although no definite record of its lineage is obtainable. It does
not seem to have been known until nearly one hundred and fifty years
after the Apricot was brought to notice. Kraft figured and described a
long prune-like red plum under this name but because of its shape his
plum was undoubtedly spurious. The variety was rejected by the American
Pomological Society in 1856. It is described as follows:

    Tree vigorous, shoots glabrous; fruit mid-season, large,
    roundish; color red over yellow; suture shallow; cavity small;
    stem an inch long, stout; flesh yellow, dryish, inferior in
    flavor; poor; freestone.


RED DATE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_ 208.
    1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1529. 1688. =4.= Kraft _Pom.
    Aust._ =2=:43, Tab. 196 fig. 2. 1796. =5.= _Lond. Hort. Soc.
    Cat._ 147. 1831. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889.

    _A Fleur Double_ 5. _Dattel Pflaume_ 6. _Dattel Zwetsche_
    6. Die grosse rothe Feigenpflaume 4. Figue Grose Rouge 5.
    _Figue Grosse Rouge_ 6. _Früh Zwetsche_ 6. _Grosse Rote
    Feigen Pflaume_ 6. _Lange Violette Dattel Zwetsche_ 6. _Lange
    Violette Dattel Pflaume_ 6. _Prune figue grosse rouge_ 4.
    _Prune d’Autriche_ 6. _Prune Figue_ 6. _Prune Datte_ 6.
    _Purpur Pflaume_ 6. Red Date-plum 3. Rote. Dattelzwetsche 6.
    _Rote Feigen Pflaume_ 6. _Turkische Zwetsche_ 6. _Ungarische
    Zwetsche_ 6. _Wilmot’s Russian_ 5. _Zucker Zwetsche_ 6.

Red Date is an interesting variety because of its very peculiar shape
which is that of an elongated curved date. Its flavor is agreeable
and all of the characters of fruit and tree are as good as in the
average variety; yet it can probably be counted as nothing more than
an interesting curiosity. Parkinson described the Red Date as long ago
as 1629 and it seems to have maintained a place in horticulture since
then. The variety was imported from France in 1901 by the United States
Department of Agriculture from which source trees were obtained by this
Station.

    Tree of medium size, upright-spreading, dense-topped,
    productive; branches thorny; branchlets developing many
    laterals on the new wood at right angles to the direction
    of growth, thickly pubescent; leaf-buds free; leaves folded
    backward, obovate, one and one-half inches by three and
    one-quarter inches long; margin crenate, with small dark
    glands; petiole pubescent, rather long, glandless or with from
    one to three small glands; blooming season intermediate in time
    and length; flowers appearing after the leaves, seven-eighths
    inch across; borne in scattering clusters on lateral buds and
    spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit mid-season; one and five-eighths inches by one inch in
    size, long irregular-oval, enlarged on the suture side, dark
    purplish-red, with thick bloom; flesh golden-yellow, rather
    dry, firm, sweet, mild; of fair quality; stone free, one and
    one-eighth inches by one-half inch in size, very long and
    narrow, somewhat oblique, acute and oblique at both base and
    apex; ventral suture blunt; dorsal suture with a long, narrow,
    deep groove.


RED DIAPER

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 67, 68, 69. 1699. =2.= Miller
    _Gard. Kal._ 184. 1734. =3.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:57. 1761.
    =4.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:102, Pl. XX fig. 12. 1768.
    =5.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:36, Tab. 185 fig. 2. 1796. =6.=
    Willichs _Dom. Enc._ 300. 1803. =7.= _Pom. Mag._ =1=:6, Pl.
    1828. =8.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:69, 90. 1832. =9.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 298. 1845. =10.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch.
    Gard._ 285, 287, 288, 383. 1846. =11.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._
    =1=:1846. =12.= _Horticulturist_ =3=:29. 1848. =13.= Thomas
    _Am. Fruit Cult._ 335, fig. 261. 1849. =14.= _Horticulturist_
    =4=:195. 1849. =15.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ 75 Pl. 1853. =16.=
    Bridgeman _Gard. Ass’t_ 128, 129, 130. 1857. =17.= _Pom.
    France_ =7=: No. 10. 1871. =18.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:135, fig.
    68. 1873. =19.= _Le Bon Jard._ 339. 1882. =20.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 697. 1884. =21.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 345. 1887.
    =22.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889. =23.= _Guide Prat._ 158,
    365. 1895.

    _Amalia Pflaume_ 22, 23. _Bunte Herzformige Pflaume_ 17, 22.
    _Cyprische Pflaume_ 22, 23. _Diaprée de Roche Corbon_ 22. _Dame
    Aubert Rouge_ 22, 23. _Diademe Imperial_ 22. _De Chypre_ 23.
    _Diademe Imperiale_ 23. Diaper 1, 10. Die Blutfarbige Pflaume
    5. Diaprée Rouge 3, 4, 9, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21. _Diaprée Rouge_
    5, 8, 10, 13, 16, 18, 22. _Diapre Rouge_ 8, 22, 23. Die Rothe
    Eierpflaume 14. _Diaper Rouge_ 16. _Diaper_ 17, 20, 22. _Die
    Blutfarbege Pflaume_ 17. _Diaprea rubra_ 17. _Diademe_ 19. _De
    Briancon_ 21. _Gluhende Kohle_ 22. _Hoheits Pflaume_ 22, 23.
    _Imperial Diadem_ 8, 9, 13, 20, 22. Imperial Diadem 10, 16.
    _Imperial Diademe_ 17, 21. _Imperatrice_ 19. _La Roche-Corbon_
    22. _La Courbon_ 17. Mimms 10, 16. _Mimms_ 9, 13, 17, 20.
    _Mimms Plum_ 10, 16, 22. Mimms Plum 7, 8. _Mimms Pflaume_ 22.
    _Matchless_ 22. Prune Diaprée Rouge 11. Prune Imperatrice 15.
    _Prune Diademe_ 15. _Prune de Briancon_ 17. _Prune de Chypre_
    22. _Prinzessin Pflaume_ 22, 23. _Roche-Carbon_ 22. Rote
    Diaprée 22. _Rouge Corbon_ 22. Rote Eier Pflaume 22. _Rote
    Cyprische Pflaume_ 22. _Rote Marunke_ 22. _Rote Osterei_ 22.
    _Rote Masche_ 22. _Rote Ross Pflaume_ 22. Rothe Eierpflaume 23.
    _Rothe Marunke_ 23. Roche Corbon 1. Roche Courbon 2. _Roche
    Corbon_ 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22. Roch-courbon 6.
    _Red Diaper_ 6, 10, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22. _Roche Courbon_ 8. _Red
    Egg Plum_ 14. _Reine de Chypre_ 14. _Red Imperial_ 16. _Rothe
    Diaprée_ 17. _Rothe Violen Pflaume_ 17. _Red Diaper Plum_
    17. _Rothe Eierpflaume_ 17. _Rothe Süsse Pflaume_ 17. _Rothe
    Diapre_ 18. _Virginische Pflaume_ 17.

Red Diaper is of historical value only, as it is now rarely found. It
does not seem to have been known as long as Violet Diaper and may be an
off-shoot of the older variety. It probably originated in France, one of
its synonyms, Roche Corbon, having been derived from a small village near
Tours. The Mimms plum said to have been raised from a stone of the Blue
Perdrigon about 1800 by Henry Browne, North Mimms Place, Hertfordshire,
England, and the Imperial Diadem said to be a seedling of about the same
date raised at Duckenfield, near Manchester, England, are identical with
Red Diaper in spite of their supposed separate origin. The Chypre, or
Prune de Chypre, thought by some to be a synonym of this variety, is
undoubtedly distinct, as it is a clingstone and is earlier. The following
description is compiled.

    Tree of slow growth in the nursery, hardy, vigorous and
    productive in the orchard. Fruit mid-season; large, obovate;
    cavity slight; stem one-half inch in length; skin brownish-red;
    bloom thin; dots very numerous, brownish, conspicuous; flesh
    greenish-yellow, firm, fine-grained, sweet; good; stone small,
    free.


RED JUNE

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 106. 1891. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =62=:28. 1894. =3.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 95. 1895. =4.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:60. 1896. =5.= _Ala. Col. Sta. Bul._
    =85=:444. 1897. =6.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =139=:45. 1897. =7.=
    _Rural N. Y._ =56=:615. 1897. =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26.
    1897. =9.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:242, 243, 249, 250. 1899.
    =10.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:136. 1899. =11.= _U. S. D. A.
    Rpt._ 386. 1901. =12.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 140. 1901. =13.=
    Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 324. 1903. =14.= _Can. Exp. Farm
    Bul._ =43=:37. 1903. =15.= _Mass. Sta. Ann. Rpt._ =17=:160.
    1905. =16.= _Md. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 85. 1905. =17.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =68=:5, 32. 1905.

    _Botan_ 14. _Hytankayo_ 11. _Long Fruit_ 3. _Nagate no
    Botankyo_ 10, 11, 17. Red Nagate 1, 2, 3, 6, 9. _Red Nagate_ 4,
    5, 11, 12, 13, 17. _Red June_ 2, 3. _Shiro Smomo_ 2, 4, 7, 11,
    12, 14. Shiro Smomo 9.

Red June is variously estimated by fruit-growers and pomologists. A
concensus of the opinions of those who have had actual experience with
the variety shows that it closely follows Abundance and Burbank in
popularity among the Trifloras. The variety is distinguished from all
other plums by its fruit-characters; the plums are distinctly cordate
in shape with a deep cavity and a very pointed apex; the color is a
mottled garnet-red overlaid with thin but very distinct and delicate
bloom; the flesh is a light yellow, firm enough to endure transportation
well, peculiarly aromatized, sweetish and not wholly agreeable in flavor
and ranking rather low in quality; the stone adheres tightly to the
flesh. The trees are large, vigorous, spreading, hardy, healthy and
productive—very good for the species to which the variety belongs. Other
good qualities of the variety are that it blooms late for a Triflora, and
that the fruits are comparatively immune to curculio and brown-rot and
hang to the trees exceptionally well for an early plum. This is one of
the Trifloras that varies in season of ripening, a peculiarity of several
of the varieties of this species, but usually the fruits ripen a week or
more before Abundance. Red June is reported to be somewhat self-sterile
and in need of cross-pollination. This variety ought to have value as an
early market plum in New York.

Red June was imported from Japan by H. H. Berger and Company, San
Francisco, California, under the name Shiro Smomo, about 1887. Stark
Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, obtained the variety in 1892 and
introduced it as the Red June in 1893. In 1897 it was added to the fruit
catalog list of the American Pomological Society. The nomenclature of
this variety is much confused. The true Japanese Red Nagate (Red Nagate
is one of the synonyms of Red June) has red flesh while this one has not;
this variety, to which the name Shiro Smomo is most often applied, is not
a Smomo plum nor is it white, (Shiro is the Japanese for white) affording
another instance of the confusion in the American application of the
Japanese names of the Triflora plums.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, hardy, productive,
    healthy; branches rough, thorny, dark brown, with numerous
    lenticels of medium size; branchlets slender, long, with short
    internodes, dark brown, marked with considerable scarf-skin,
    glabrous, with numerous large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds
    small, medium in length, conical, free.

    Leaves folded upward, oblanceolate, one inch wide, two and
    three-quarters inches long, thin; upper surface glabrous, with
    a lightly grooved midrib; lower surface light green, thinly
    pubescent along the midrib and larger veins which are tinged
    red; apex taper-pointed, base acuminate, margin finely serrate,
    with small glands; petiole one-half inch long, slender, tinged
    red, slightly hairy along one side, with from one to three
    small, brown glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing before the leaves, white; borne in clusters on
    lateral buds and spurs, in twos or in threes; pedicels of
    medium length and thickness, glabrous except for occasional
    hairs, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, sparingly glandular, with marginal
    hairs, glabrous on the outer side, thinly pubescent on the
    inner side, erect; petals oval, entire, tapering at the base
    to short claws; anthers light yellow; filaments short; pistil
    glabrous, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit early, one and one-half inches by one and three-eighths
    inches in size, roundish-ovate to roundish-cordate, sides
    unequal; cavity large, deep, narrow, regular, abrupt; suture
    deep, distinct; apex very pointed; color garnet-red, mottled;
    bloom thin; dots numerous, small, russet; stem one-half inch
    long, adhering to the fruit; skin above medium in thickness,
    tender, slightly astringent, separating easily; flesh light
    yellow, fibrous, somewhat meaty, sweet except near the center;
    good; stone clinging, five-eighths inch by one-half inch in
    size, irregular-oval, slightly flattened, pointed at both
    ends, with pitted surfaces; ventral suture prominently winged,
    narrow; dorsal suture not grooved.


RED MAGNUM BONUM

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 577. 1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_
    208. 1676. =3.= Langley _Pomona_ 92, Pl. XX fig. V. 1729. =4.=
    Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:98, Pl. XV. 1768. =5.= Kraft
    _Pom. Aust._ =2=:31, Tab. 178 fig. 1. 1796. =6.= Willichs _Dom.
    Enc._ =4=:300. 1803. =7.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:59. 1832. =8.=
    Hoffy _Orch. Com._ fig. 1841. =9.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch.
    Gard._ 292. 1846. =10.= _Horticulturist_ =4=:194. 1849. =11.=
    _Ann. Pom. Belge_ 99, Pl. 1853. =12.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 428,
    429. 1854. =13.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:499. 1860.
    =14.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 943. 1869. =15.= Mas _Pom. Gen._
    =2=:139, fig. 70. 1873. =16.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 721. 1884.
    =17.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887. =18.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
    445, 448. 1889. =19.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 87. 1890. =20.=
    _Guide Prat._ 158, 358. 1895.

    _Askew’s Purple Egg_ 12, 14, 16, 18. _Blaue Kaiserpflaume_ 15,
    18, 20 incor. _Blaue Eier Pflaume_ 18 incor. _Bockshoden_ 18,
    20. _Bocksdutten_ 18, 20. _Bonum Magnum_ 18 incor., 20. _Blue
    Imperatrice_ 7 incor., 8. _Copper Plum_ 8. Die Kaiserliche
    veilchenfarbige Pflaume 5. Die Rothe Kaiserpflaume 10. Dame
    Aubert 13. _Dame Aubert Violette_ 14, 16, 18, 20. _Die Rothe
    Eierpflaume_ 14. _Dame Aubert Rouge_ 17. Dame Aubert Rouge 19.
    _D’Oeuf Violette_ 20. _Early Forcing_ 12. _Florence_ 12, 14,
    16, 18, 20. _Frühe Treib Zwetsche_ 18. _Frühe Treibzwetsche_
    20. _Great Imperial Plum_ 18, 20. _Grosse Früh Zwetsche_ 18
    incor. _Grosse Ungarische Zwetsche_ 18 incor. Imperiall 1.
    Imperial 3, 6. _Impériale Violette_ 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 16,
    18, 20. Impériale Violette 4, 15, 20. Imperial Violet 7.
    _Impériale_ 7, 14, 16, 18, 20. _Imperiall_ 9. _Imperial_ 9, 14,
    18. _Impériale Rouge_ 10, 14, 16, 18. _Imperial Rouge_ 12, 18.
    _Imperial Violet_ 14, 18. _Impériale Hâtive_ 18, 20. Impériale
    rouge 20. _Large Orlean_ 7. _Mogul Rouge_ 16, 18. _Oeuf Rouge_
    16, 18. _Prune d’Oeuf Violette_ 18. _Prinzessinpflaume_ 15.
    _Prune-figue_ 13. Prune Impériale Violette 11. _Prune d’oeuf_
    7, 14, 18. _Purple Egg_ 7, 12, 14, 16, 18. _Prune-oeuf_ 7.
    _Purple Magnum Bonum_ 12, 14, 18. _Red Magnum Bonum_ 8, 12, 20.
    _Red Magnum_ 6. _Red Imperiale_ 7, 8, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20. _Red
    Bonum Magnum_ 3, 7, 18, 20. _Red Egg Plum_ 10. Red Egg 12. Red
    Imperial 12. _Red Egg_ 14, 16, 18. Red Aubert 17. _Rote Eier
    Pflaume_ 18. Rote Kaiserpflaume 18. _Rote Kaiser Zwetsche_ 18.
    116 _Riga_ 19. _Rothe Kaiserpflaume_ 20. _Rothe Kaiserzwetsche_
    20. _Shepler_ ?14, ?18. _Sainte-Catherine_ (Belgien) 18, 20.
    The Imperial Plum 2. _Violette oder Blaue Kaiserpflaume_ 15.

Once popular, Red Magnum Bonum is now but of historical interest.
Three centuries ago this variety was cultivated in England by John
Tradescant under the name Imperiall. It was mentioned by all of the
early horticultural writers and it seems clear that the variety was
well established in Europe at least as early as the beginning of the
Seventeenth Century. As all plums at that time were propagated from
seed, a large number of sub-varieties of this sort were produced and as
these became established the nomenclature of the variety became much
involved. In 1729 Langley called it the Red Magnum Bonum, a name it has
since retained. It is not known when the variety was introduced into this
country but its first appearance in American literature was in 1803.
After its introduction nurserymen sold any large red plum as Red Magnum
Bonum and it became difficult to find the true variety. Professor J. L.
Budd apparently reintroduced this plum in 1881-1882 under the name Dame
Aubert Rouge. Although very extensively grown in America at one time
it has never been a favorite because of its poor quality. The American
Pomological Society rejected it in 1858 from a list of candidates for its
catalog. The following description is compiled.

    Tree hardy, vigorous, productive; young shoots glabrous. Fruit
    mid-season; large, oval, deep red in the sun, pale red in the
    shade, covered with thin bloom; stem one inch long; flesh
    greenish, firm, slightly coarse, dry, brisk subacid; of fair
    quality; stone oval, free.


REINE CLAUDE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 67, 68, 69. 1699. =2.= Langley
    _Pomona_ 93, Pl. XXIII fig. 7. 1729. =3.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb.
    Fr._ =2=:89, Pl. XI. 1768. =4.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:62.
    1771. =5.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ 28, Tab. 173 fig. 2, 41, Tab.
    193 fig. 2. 1796. =6.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 20. 1803.
    =7.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ =3.= 1807. =8.= Coxe _Cult. Fr.
    Trees_ 237, fig. 14. 1817. =9.= Phillips _Com. Orch._ 306.
    1831. =10.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147, 148. 1831. =11.=
    Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:48. 1832. =12.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._,
    Pl. 1839. =13.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 276 fig. 106. 1845.
    =14.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 283, 382, 419. 1846.
    =15.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846. =16.= _Horticulturist_
    =2=:178, 179, fig. 30, 291. 1847. =17.= Thomas _Am. Fruit
    Cult._ 326 fig. 253, 329. 1849. =18.= Hovey _Fr. Am._ =2=:69,
    Pl. 1851. =19.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 54. 1852. =20.= Elliott
    _Fr. Book_ 410. 1854. =21.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 517. 1859.
    =22.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 917. 1869. =23.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =6=:55, fig. 28. 1866-73. =24.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 5. 1871.
    =25.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 434. 1881. =26.= Lauche
    _Deut. Pom._ 20, Pl. IV 20. 1882. =27.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 703.
    1884. =28.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 433. 1889. =29.= _Guide Prat._
    154, 363. 1895. =30.= Bailey _Sur. Unlike_ 176, 243. 1896.
    =31.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:186. 1897. =32.= _Botanical
    Gazette_ =26=:423. 1898. =33.= _Gard. Chron._ 3rd Ser.
    =24=:465. 1898. =34.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 22, 106, 107 fig. 1901.

    _Abricot Verd_ 5, 9. _Abricot Vert_ 3, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 21,
    22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29. Abricotée Sageret ?22, 28. _Aloise’s
    Green Gage_ 22, 24, 27, ?28, 29. _Blanche Grosse Espece_ 10.
    _Bonne Verte_ 5. _Bradford Gage_ 13, 20, 21, 22, 28, 29.
    _Bradford Green Gage_ 27, 28. _Bradford Queen Gage_ 24, ?29.
    _Brugnon Green Gage_ 10, 18, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29. _Brugnon
    Gage_ 20, 22, 28, 29. _Bruyn Gage_ 13, 17, 18 incor., 20, 22,
    28, 29. _Burgnon Gage_ 13, 24. _Cant’s Late Green Gage_ 22, 28.
    Claudia 12. _Damas Gris_ 24, 28, 29. _Damas Verd_ 9. _Damas
    Vert_ 7, 10, 13, 18, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29. _Dauphine_ 5, 7,
    10, 11, 13, 14, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29. Die grosse
    Königin Claudiapflaume, die grüne Abrikose 5. Die Königin
    Klaudia 5. Dauphine 3. _Dauphiny_ 6. _Drap d’Or_ of some 10,
    18, 28, 29. _Echte Grosse Reine-Claude_ 28, 29. _Gage Verte_
    28, 29. _Great Green Damask_ 22, 27, 28. _Great Green Damaski_
    24, 29. _Great Queen Claudia_ 11. Green Gage 2, 6, 8, 10, 11,
    13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 27, 30, 31, 33, 34. _Green
    Spanish_ 14, 18. _Gros Damas Vert_ 11, 22, 28, 29. Grosse
    Königin Claudiapflaume 5. _Green Gage_ 7, 9, 23, 24, 28, 29,
    32, 34. _Goring’s Golden Gage_ 22, 24, 27, 28, 29. _Grosse
    Reine_ 10, 13, 18, 20, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29. _Grosse Grüne
    Reine-Claude_ 25, 28. Grosse Reine-Claude 7, 25, 26, 28.
    _Grosse Reine-Claude_ 3, 5, 10, 11, 13, 14, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23,
    24, 25, 29. Gros Reine-Claude 14. _Grüne Aprikose_ 5, 28, 29.
    _Grüne Abrikose_ 5. _Grüne Reineclaude_ 25. _Gute Grüne_ 28,
    29. _Huling’s Reine-Claudia_ 22, 28. _Huling’s Reine Claude_
    11. _Ida Gage_ 22. Ida Green Gage 16. _Ida Green Gage_ 20,
    22, 24, 27, 28, 29. _Isleworth Green Gage_ 13, 18, 20, 21,
    22, 24, 27, 28, 29. Isleworth Green Gage 10. _King of Plums_
    20. _Königin Claudia_ 28, 29. Königin Klaudia 5. _Large Queen
    Claude_ 11. _La Grosse Reine-Claude_ 11. Large Queen Claudia
    6. _Large green claudia_ 11. _Livingston Manor_ 22, 28. Louis
    Brun ?22, ?28. _Mammola_ 12. _Mirabelle Vert Double_ 22, 24,
    27, 28, 29. _Murray’s Reine Claudia_ 22, 28. _Murray’s Reine
    Claude_ 11, 14, 22, 27. Prune de Reine Claude 15. Prunus
    Domestica Cereola 32. _Prunus Domestica var. cereola_ 33.
    _Prunus Domestica var. Claudiana_ 32. _Queen Claude_ 2. _Queen
    Claudia_ 11, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29. _Reine-Claude Ancienne_
    23, 24, 28, 27. _Reine-Claude Blanche Grosse Espece_ 10.
    _Reineclaude d’oree_ 29. _Reine-Claude Blanche La Grosse_ 11,
    22. _Reine-Claude_ 8, 10, 11, 13, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28,
    33. Reine Claud 1. Reine-Claudia 2. _Reine-Claude Blanche_ 10.
    _Reine-Claude Dorée_ 22, 23, 24, 25, 28, 29. _Reine-Claude
    Dore_ 18, 22. _Reine-Claude Grosse_ 27, 28. _Reine-Claude
    Verde Perdrigon_ 5. _Reine-Claude Verte_ 23, 29. _Rensselaer
    Gage_ 20, 22. _Rensselvar Gage_ 24, 29. _Rensselaar Gage_
    27, 28. _Reine-Claude Verte Tiquetée_ 28, 29. _Reine-Claudia
    Blanche La Grosso_ 22, 28. _Royal Green Gage_ 28, 29. _Schuyler
    Gage_ 20, incor. 22, 24, 27. _Schuyler’s Gage_ ?13, 20, 28,
    29. _Sucrin Vert_ 10, 11, 13, 18, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28, 29.
    _Sultaneck Erik_ ?28, 29. _Susina Regina_ 12. _Triomphe Garcon_
    24, 28, 29. _Triomphe Valet_ 24, 28, 29. _Trompe Garcon_ 22,
    27, 28, 29. _Tromp-Valet_ 7. _Trompe Valet_ 22, 27, 28, 29.
    _Verdacia_ 27, 28. _Verdacchia rotonda_ 12. _Verdoch_ 27, 32,
    34. _Verdochia_ 32. _Verdochio_ 22, 24, 27, 28, 29. _Verducia_
    22. _Verte Bonne_ 3, 7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 18, 21, 22, 23, 24, 28,
    29. _Vert Bonne_ 13, 22, 27. _Verte d’Espagne_ 23, 28, 29.
    _Verte Tiquetée_ 22, 24, 27, 28, 29. _Vilmot’s Green Gage_ 29.
    _Vilmot’s Late Green Gage_ 29. _Wilmot’s Green Gage_ 10, 11,
    18, 20, 21, 22, 24, 27, 28. Wilmot’s Late Green Gage 11, 18,
    20, 21, 22. _Wilmot’s Late Green Gage_ 10, 13, 18, 20, 21, 22,
    28, 29. _Wilmot’s New Green Gage_ 10, 11, 13, 18, 20, 22, 28,
    29. _Waterloo_ 20.

In the pomological literature since Quintinye in 1699, Reine Claude has
been the standard in quality for plums. For the qualities that gratify or
assist in gratifying the sense of taste,—richness of flavor, consistency
and texture of flesh, abundance of juice and pleasant aroma,—the Reine
Claude is unsurpassed. It is, however, now probably equalled in quality
by several of the great number of similar varieties which have originated
in America and for which American plum-growing is justly distinguished.
Under ordinary cultivation the Reine Claude is not a remarkably handsome
plum but when grown on thrifty trees, the crop thinned, foliage and fruit
kept free from pests and the fruits sufficiently exposed to the sun to
color well, it is a beautiful fruit, its size, form and color all adding
to its beauty. The tree is only of moderate size in the orchard and in
the nursery is so small and wayward that nurserymen hesitate to grow it.
The trees, though small, are productive and bear regularly, the chief
defect being the susceptibility to sunscald whereby the bark on the trunk
is killed and the beginning of the end is marked. The short life of the
trees of this variety is largely due to this injury to the bark and has
led to top-working on Lombard and other stocks, an operation successful
only when done early in the life of the stock. Another serious fault is
that the fruit cracks badly if showers occur at ripening time. Reine
Claude is still one of the most profitable plums grown in New York and
whether for the commercial or home plantation deserves a place in the
plum orchard.

For a complete history of this variety the reader is referred to the
discussion of the Reine Claude group of plums. The Bavay, a distinct
variety, is called the true Reine Claude by many nurserymen and
horticultural writers. Green Gage is a synonym of the Reine Claude and
is preferred by some writers for this plum but since “Reine Claude” is
as well known and much older it has been retained in _The Plums of New
York_. The American Pomological Society placed this variety on its fruit
catalog list in 1852.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, round-topped, hardy, productive;
    trunk and branches of medium thickness and smoothness; branches
    ash-brown, with few lenticels; branchlets short, with short
    internodes, reddish-brown, lightly pubescent; leaf-buds large,
    long, conical or pointed, free; leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves four and one-half inches long, two inches wide, oval,
    thick, leathery; upper surface dark green, smooth, covered with
    fine, scattering hairs; lower surface pale green, pubescent;
    apex acute, margin often doubly crenate, glandular; petiole
    three-quarters inch long, tinged red, glandless or with one or
    two small, globose, greenish glands variable in position.

    Fruit mid-season; one and three-quarters inches by one and
    five-eighths inches in size, roundish-oval, halves equal;
    cavity narrow, regular, abrupt; suture shallow, broad; apex
    pubescent, roundish or slightly depressed; color yellowish
    green, indistinctly streaked with green, becoming golden-yellow
    at full maturity, sometimes mottled on the sunny side with
    red, overspread with thin bloom; dots very numerous, small,
    grayish, conspicuous, clustered about the apex; stem thick,
    three-quarters inch long, pubescent; skin tough, adhering
    to the pulp; flesh greenish-yellow or golden-yellow, juicy,
    firm, sweet, mild; very good; stone semi-clinging, one inch
    by three-quarters inch in size, oval, turgid, tapering at the
    base, blunt at the apex, with thickly pitted surfaces; ventral
    suture wide, distinctly furrowed, often with a short wing;
    dorsal suture with a very wide and deep groove.


ROBINSON

[Illustration: ROBINSON]

_Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Ind. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 134. 1883. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Rpt._ 151. 1891. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:64, 86. 1892.
    =4.= _Me. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:67. 1896. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Rpt._ 89. 1897. =6.= _Wis. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 137. 1899. =7.=
    _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:15. 1901. =8.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 199.
    1901. =9.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._ =101=:131. 1901. =10.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =67=:280. 1904. =11.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257.
    1905.

Robinson has long been one of the best known of its species though it
is probably inferior in fruit-characters at least to several other
Munsoniana sorts. The plums are attractive in coloring but small in size
and comparatively low in quality. The trees are capricious in growth and
not as hardy as some others of the species but where they can be grown
are always productive. The variety is rated by some authors among those
that need cross-pollination to insure large crops. Robinson may be worth
growing in the South and in the States of the Plains but it cannot be
recommended for any purpose in New York.

This variety is a seedling grown by a Mr. Pickett of Putnam County,
Indiana, from a seed brought with him from North Carolina about 1835. In
1879, Dr. J. H. Robinson read a paper before the Indiana Horticultural
Society on Chicasaw plums, and gave a very flattering description of this
plum, which he had been growing since 1872. Later it was named by the
Putnam County Horticultural Society in honor of Dr. Robinson. This name
was used as a synonym of Miner by Downing in 1869 but at the present time
that usage has almost disappeared in plum literature.

    Tree variable in size, often large, vigorous, spreading, not
    uniform in habit, somewhat open and flat-topped, hardy, medium
    to productive; trunk shaggy; branches very rough, zigzag,
    thorny, dark ash-gray, with numerous, large, narrow and
    strongly elongated, raised lenticels; branchlets slender to
    medium, with internodes medium to below in length, greenish-red
    changing to dull, dark chestnut-red, glabrous, with numerous
    very conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds small,
    short, obtuse, free.

    Leaves folded upward, lanceolate, peach-like, one and
    five-sixteenths inches wide, three and one-half inches long,
    thin; upper surface dark green, glabrous, with deeply grooved
    midrib; lower surface glabrous except along the midrib and
    larger veins; apex taper-pointed, base obtuse, margin very
    finely serrate, with small, dark red glands; petiole slender,
    five-eighths inch long, reddish, lightly pubescent along one
    side, glandless or with from one to seven small, globose,
    reddish-brown glands on the stalk and on the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season medium to late, long; flowers appearing
    with the leaves, eleven-sixteenths inch across, whitish,
    somewhat self-fertile; borne in clusters on lateral buds and
    spurs, in twos, threes or fours; pedicels seven-sixteenths
    inch long, slender, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    narrow-campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, slightly
    obtuse, glandular, pubescent and with marginal hairs, erect;
    petals ovate or oval, small, narrow, slightly crenate, tapering
    below to long, narrow claws; anthers yellowish; filaments
    one-quarter inch long; pistil glabrous, slightly shorter than
    or equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit early, season very long; less than an inch in diameter,
    roundish or roundish-oval, halves equal; cavity of medium
    depth and width, abrupt; suture a line; apex roundish;
    color clear currant-red, overspread with thick bloom; dots
    scattering, large, russet, conspicuous, clustered around the
    apex; stem slender, five-eighths inch long, glabrous, adhering
    to the fruit; skin tough, bitter, separating readily; flesh
    golden-yellow, very juicy, somewhat fibrous, tender and
    melting, sweet next the skin, with some astringency near the
    center, of mild but pleasant flavor; fair in quality; stone
    clinging, five-eighths inch by three-eighths inch in size,
    oval, turgid, very slightly flattened and necked at the base,
    abrupt-pointed at the apex, roughish; ventral suture blunt,
    slightly ridged; dorsal suture with a rather broad groove of
    medium depth.


ROLLINGSTONE

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =44=:645. 1885. =2.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    279. 1885. =3.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 186. 1885. =4.= _Wis.
    Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 32. 1885. =5.= _Minn. Sta. Bul._ =10=:73 fig.
    1890. =6.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:41, 86. 1892. =7.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 24. 1897. =8.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:56, 58
    fig. 28. 1897. =9.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:45. 1898. =10.=
    _Ohio. Sta. Bul._ =113=:153. 1899. =11.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    162. 1901. =12.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:280. 1904. =13.= _Ohio
    Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.

    _Minnesota_ 2. Rolling Stone 3, 4.

Rollingstone is an old Americana sort which has been kept in cultivation
chiefly because it is of very good quality for one of its species.
The fruit is rather dull in color and small but not unattractive in
appearance; the plums are little troubled by either the brown-rot or the
plum curculio and ship very well because of the tough skin. The tree is
dwarfish with a crooked trunk, shaggy bark, unkempt top and very twiggy—a
typical Americana and most difficult to grow into a good orchard plant.
The variety is characterized by long, conspicuous stamens, stigmas
frequently defective and by very large leaves. The variety has little or
no value in New York.

Rollingstone was found near an old Indian camping ground on the
Rollingstone Creek, Winona County, Minnesota, by Mr. O. M. Lord,[220]
Minnesota City, about 1852. Mr. Lord planted trees of this plum in his
garden and found that they improved greatly under cultivation, so much
so that they soon became very popular in the local market. About 1882
he introduced the Rollingstone to fruit-growers in general. Mr. H.
M. Thompson of St. Francis, according to the Minnesota Horticultural
Society Report for 1885, sent this plum out under the name Minnesota but
fortunately it has not been distributed under its synonym widely enough
to cause much confusion. In 1897 the American Pomological Society added
Rollingstone to its fruit catalog list.

    Tree dwarfish, variable in vigor, spreading, flat-topped,
    hardy, productive, healthy; trunk shaggy; branches dark
    ash-gray, thorny, rough, zigzag, with numerous, rather large
    lenticels; branchlets slender, twiggy, medium to short, with
    internodes of average length, greenish turning to dark brown,
    glossy, glabrous, with conspicuous, small, raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds medium in size and length, appressed.

    Leaves falling early, folded upward, obovate or long-ovate,
    one and one-half inches wide, three and one-half inches long,
    thin; upper surface smooth, glabrous, with a narrow groove on
    the midrib; lower surface silvery green, lightly pubescent, the
    veins prominent; apex taper-pointed, base rather acute, margin
    coarsely and doubly serrate, eglandular; petiole slender,
    five-eighths inch long, tinged red, sparingly pubescent,
    glandless or with one or two small, globose, reddish glands on
    the stalk.

    Blooming season late and short; flowers appearing after the
    leaves; three-quarters inch across, the buds creamy-white
    changing to white as the flowers expand; borne in clusters
    on lateral buds and spurs, in threes or in fours; pedicels
    seven-sixteenths inch long, below medium in thickness,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube reddish-green, obconic, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, acute, eglandular, glabrous on the outer
    surface but lightly pubescent within, heavily pubescent on the
    margin and with irregular deep serrations, erect; petals oval
    or slightly ovate, dentate, tapering below into narrow claws
    reddish at the base; stamens conspicuous; anthers yellow;
    filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to
    the stamens in length; stigma often abortive.

    Fruit mid-season or earlier, ripening period short; about
    one inch in diameter, roundish, halves equal; cavity
    shallow, flaring, marked before maturity with light-colored,
    radiating streaks; suture a line; apex roundish; color dark
    purplish-red, with thin bloom; dots numerous, small, light
    russet, inconspicuous; stem slender, nine-sixteenths inch long,
    adhering poorly to the fruit; skin thick, tough, semi-adherent;
    flesh orange-yellow, juicy, slightly fibrous, tender and
    melting, sweet, strongly aromatic; good; stone semi-free,
    five-eighths inch by one-half inch in size, roundish-oval,
    flattened, smoothish, blunt at the base and apex; ventral
    suture acute, faintly ridged; dorsal suture acute, with a
    narrow, shallow, indistinct groove.


ROYAL TOURS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:81, Pl. XX fig. 8. 1768.
    =2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:35, Tab. 184 fig. 2. 1796. =3.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 313. 1845. =4.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 423.
    1854. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:53, fig. 27. 1866-73. =6.= Lange
    _Allgem. Garten._ =2=:420. 1879. =7.= _Le Bon Jard._ =2=:341.
    1882. =8.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 368. 1887. =9.= Mathieu
    _Nom. Pom._ 438. 1889. =10.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 365. 1895.
    =11.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 120, 121. 1901.

    _Damas de Tours_ 7. Die königliche Pflaume von Tours 2. _Diel’s
    Königspflaume_ 9 incor. _Diels Königpflaume_ 10. _Frühe Herrn
    Pflaume_ 9 incor., 10. Kings plum of Tours 6. _Königspflaume
    von Tours_ 5, 10. Königspflaume von Tours 9. _Königliche
    Pflaume von Tours_ 9, 10. _Königs Pflaume_ 9 incor., 10.
    _Königliche Grosse Pflaume_ 9, 10. _Königin von Tours_ 9,
    10. _Moroccopflaume_ 10. _Morocco_ 9 incor. _Prune Royale de
    Tours_ 5, 9. _Rothe Königspflaume_ 10. _Roi_ 10. _Royale_ 8,
    10. Royale de Tours 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 10. _Royale de Tours_ 2, 4,
    9, 10, 11. _Royal Tours_ 3, 4, 9. Royal of Tours 4. _Royal red
    Plum_ 8, 10. _Worth_ 11.

This excellent variety should be grown generally in America for home use,
at least, if it proves nearly as desirable as it is rated in Europe.
Royal Tours is an old French sort supposed to have originated in the
neighborhood of Tours, France. Although highly esteemed in Europe, it
has not gained favor in this country and is rarely found here. Waugh
states that in 1899 he secured specimens of it from North Carolina where
it was grown locally under the name Worth. The following description is
compiled.

    Tree strong, vigorous; branches thick, short, smooth; fruit
    early mid-season; of medium size, irregularly roundish, swollen
    on one side, dark reddish-purple covered with thick bloom;
    cavity deep; suture prominent; stem short, thick; skin thick,
    firm; dots conspicuous; flesh greenish-yellow, firm, sweet;
    very good; stone large, oblong, rough, clinging.


RUTLAND PLUMCOT

_Prunus triflora_ × _Prunus armeniaca_

    =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 13 fig. 1901. =2.= De Vries _Pl. Br._ 218.
    1907. =3.= _Fancher Creek Nur. Cat._ 10 fig. 1909.

    Plumcot 1, 2.

One of the interesting novelties of recent plum-breeding is the Plumcot
grown by Luther Burbank[221] from a cross between the plum and the
apricot. Not having seen the fruit of this remarkable cross we are
unable to judge of its value to the plum-grower. Out of a large number
of extremely variable seedlings of this cross Burbank selected this, the
Rutland Plumcot, named in honor of an Australian admirer of the fruit.
The variety was introduced by the Fancher Creek Nursery in 1906 and 1907.
The following description is partly compiled.

    Tree vigorous, spreading, open, not a heavy bearer; branches
    thorny; branchlets rather slender, with short internodes, dull
    red; leaves folded upward, oval, one and five-eighths inches
    wide, two and seven-eighths inches long, rather stiff; margin
    finely and doubly crenate, glandular; petiole greenish-red,
    with from one to four globose glands.

    The fruit in California attains a large size; suture and cavity
    deep; skin fuzzy like an apricot, purple; flesh deep red,
    subacid; quality fair; stone large, broad-oval.


SAINT CATHERINE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 67, 68, 69. 1699. =2.= Langley
    _Pomona_ 94, Pl. 24 fig. 6. 1729. =3.= Miller _Gard. Dict._
    =3.= 1754. =4.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:97, Pl. XX fig.
    5, 109, Pl. XIX. 1768. =5.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:55. 1771.
    =6.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831. =7.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:76, 103. 1832. =8.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 267. 1832. =9.=
    Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl. 1839. =10.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 283 fig. 112. 1845. =11.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
    298, 383. 1846. =12.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846. =13.=
    _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ XXX. 1854. =14.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ 65,
    Pl. 1855. =15.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 520. 1859. =16.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 86. 1862. =17.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 23. 1871.
    =18.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:89, fig, 45. 1866-73. =19.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 724. 1884. =20.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889.
    =21.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 356 fig. 1891. =22.= _Guide Prat._
    161, 365. 1895. =23.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:33 fig. 1897.

    _Bricet_ 7. _Bricette_ 4, 7, 12. _Bricette_ 7, 19. _Brisette_
    20, 22. Catherine (Prune de Ste.) 5. _Catharinenpflaume_ 18,
    20, 21. _De Sainte-Catherine_ 22. Gelbe Catharinenpflaume 20.
    _Gelbe Catharinenpflaume_ 18, 22. _Gelbe Katharinenpflaume_ 17,
    22. _Gute Kathe_ 20. _Mirabelle Tardive_ 7. _Petite Bricette_
    7. _Pruneau de Tours_ 18. _Prune de Sainte Catherine_ 7, 17,
    20. Prune Sainte Catherine 13. _Prune Sainte-Catherine_ 18.
    _Prune Sainte-Catherine Jaune_ 18. Prunier Sainte-Catherine
    14. _Pruneaux de Tours_ 13. St. Catharine 1, 2, 7, 8, 16,
    19, 23. _Saint Catherine_ 7. _Sainte Catherine_ 11, 20.
    Sainte-Catharine 3, 4, 12, 17, 18, 22. _Sainte-Catherine
    de Tours_ 17, 20, 22. _Sainte-Catherine jaune_ 20, 21.
    _Sainte-Catherine ordinaire_ 17, 20, 22. St. Katharine 1.
    _Späte Mirabelle_ 20 incor., 22. Susina Di Santa Caterina 9.
    _Torlo d’Ovo_ 9. _Torlo d’Uovo_ 9. _Yellow St. Catharine_ 7.

This plum is grown only on the Pacific Coast in America and even there
is to be found but locally and is now passing from cultivation. It is,
however, one of the well-known sorts in Europe, especially in France
where it is used for prune-making. It appears to be of the Reine Claude
group in which group America has so many plums of surpassing merit that
this one has no place on this side of the Atlantic. It is included in
_The Plums of New York_ largely because of its historic interest and
because there seems to be no complete description of it made from trees
and fruits grown on this continent.

The origin of this old plum is unknown. It was first mentioned by
Quintinye in 1699. Wherever it originated, it is now grown most
extensively in France and is known to commerce as the Prune of Tours.
The people in Northern Italy cultivate it under the name Torlo d’Ovo
(References, 9). The Belgians have used Saint Catherine incorrectly
for the Imperiale Violette (References, 14). In America, according to
Kenrick, it was not uncommon around Boston in 1832 but it evidently
did not receive much recognition, for the United States Patent Office
reimported it from France in 1854 and distributed it in the northeastern
part of this country. The American Pomological Society added it to its
fruit catalog list in 1862 and dropped it in 1899.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, usually hardy, productive;
    branches sparingly thorny, light ash-brown, smooth except
    for the few raised lenticels; branchlets thick, long, with
    long internodes, greenish-red changing to dark reddish-brown,
    marked with scarf-skin, nearly glabrous throughout the season,
    with few, conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds of
    medium size and length, conical or pointed, broad at the base,
    appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, oval, one and one-half inches wide, three
    inches long; upper surface lightly pubescent, with a grooved
    midrib; lower surface silvery-green, pubescent; apex and
    base acute, margin crenate, with small, dark glands; petiole
    three-quarters inch long, thick, with a red tinge, pubescent,
    glandless or with from one to three conspicuous, globose,
    bright yellow glands variable in size, usually on the stalk.

    Season of bloom intermediate, long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one inch across, white, the buds tinged yellow as they
    open; borne on lateral spurs, in twos or in threes; pedicels
    nearly one inch long, slender, with thin pubescence, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes small,
    narrow, acute, pubescent on the inner surface, erect; petals
    oval, entire, not clawed; anthers yellow with a tinge of red;
    filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to
    the stamens in length, often abortive.

    Fruit late, intermediate in length of ripening season; small,
    obovate or oval, slightly necked, truncate at the base,
    compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow, flaring;
    suture varies from shallow to deep, often prominent; apex
    depressed; color dull green, changing to golden-yellow,
    overspread with thin bloom; dots numerous, small, gray,
    inconspicuous, clustered about the apex; stem slender, very
    long, often one and one-eighth inches in length, glabrous,
    adhering well to the fruit; skin thick, tough, clinging
    slightly; flesh light golden-yellow, juicy, fibrous, sweet,
    mild, pleasant, not high in flavor; good; stone clinging,
    three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size, oval, flattened,
    slightly acute at the base and apex, with roughened surfaces;
    ventral suture finely grooved, blunt; dorsal suture with a
    wide, shallow groove.


SAINT JULIEN

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ =3.= 1754. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc.
    Cat._ 153. 1831. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:73. 1832. =4.=
    Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:500. 1860. =5.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 946. 1869. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 725. 1884. =7.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449. 1889. =8.= _Rev. Hort._ 438. 1892.
    =9.= _Trait. Prat. Sech. Fruits_ 170. 1893. =10.= _Bot. Gaz._
    =26=:425. 1898.

    Common Saint Julian 3. _Common Saint Julien_ 5, 7. _French St.
    Julien_ 3, 5, 7. _Gros Saint-Julien_ 3. Gros Saint-Julien 4.
    _Kleine Blaue Julians Pflaume_ 7. Large Saint Julien ?3. Petit
    Saint Julien 4. _Petit Saint Julien_ 3, 5, 7. _Prunus Insititia
    var._ 7. Prunus Domestica Juliana 10. Prunier Saint-Julien 8.
    St. Julien 6. _St. Julian_ 3. _Saint Julien_ 3. Saint Julien
    Petit ?2. _Saint-Julien Petit_ 3, 5, 7. The St. Julian Plum 1.
    _Weichharige Schlehen Damascene_ 7.

The Saint Julien plums, as we now use the name, constitute a division
of _Prunus insititia_ used as propagating stocks. Whether the name was
ever applied to a specific variety can not be said. Miller, in 1754,
described a “St. Julian” and gave its chief use as a stock for plums,
peaches and Bruxelles Apricot. Later writers recommend them chiefly, if
not only, as stocks though in France it is said the fruits are dried and
sold by the pharmacists and herbalists under the name _Prunus medicines_
(medicinal prunes). Carrière, in _Revue Horticole_ 1892, speaks very
highly of these plums as stocks and describes them as follows:

    “Tree vigorous, with branches spreading-straggling, relatively
    short, branched at the extremity. Leaves numerous, slightly
    roughened by the prominence of the numerous nerves on the lower
    surface, short, oblong, usually rounded at the apex, attenuated
    at the base, where are found a few very small glands; petiole
    about two centimeters long, yellowish, lengthening out
    into a prominent midrib; buds short, oval, pointed, deep
    reddish-brown; dark green above, pale green below, bordered
    regularly with very close, short, slightly inclined teeth.

    Fruits very abundant, pedunculate, spherical or oblong,
    peduncle a little bent, rather strong, nearly three centimeters
    long, inserted in a very small cavity, regularly rounded. Skin
    strongly attached to the flesh, even, glossy, purplish-black,
    more or less glaucous; flesh free from the seed, pulpy, very
    juicy, soft, greenish, sweet, leaving a taste a little strong,
    but not disagreeable; seed short oval, elliptical, flattened,
    ten millimeters in width, nearly fifteen to sixteen millimeters
    in length, with grayish-red surface roughened by small, regular
    projections. Matures from July to September.”


SAINT MARTIN

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144, 153. 1831. =2.= Prince _Pom.
    Man._ =2=:74. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 295 fig. 119.
    1845. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1. 1846. =5.= _Mag. Hort._
    =14=:151 fig. 15. 1848. =6.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 336
    fig. 260, 337. 1849. =7.= Elliott _Fr. Book._ 423. 1854. =8.=
    Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 515. 1859. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 40.
    1867. =10.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 365. 1895.

    _Catherine violette_ 8, 10. _Coe’s Fine Late Red_ 8. Coe’s Fine
    Late Red 1, 5, 7, 10. _Coe’s Late Red_ 3, 6, 9. _Coe’s Late
    Red_ 5, 6, 7, 10. _Coë’s sehr späte rothe Pflaume_ 10. _De la
    Saint-Martin_ 10. _Oktoberpflaume_ 10. _Prune de la St. Martin_
    3. _Prunier de Saint Martin_ 2, 5, 7. Red St. Martin 2, 7.
    _Red Saint Martin_ 5, 6, 7. _Rouge tardive de Coë_ 10. Saint
    Martin Rouge 5. _Saint-Martin Rouge_ 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10. _Saint
    Martin_ 2, 3, 5. _St. Martin_ 2, 6, 7, 8. _St. Martin Rouge_ 8.
    _Violette d’Octobre_ 10. _Violette Octoverpflaume_ 8. _Violette
    Oktoberpflaume_ 10.

Saint Martin is an old French variety now hardly worth growing, brought
into England by a Mr. Coe who called it Coe’s Fine Late Red, a name
continued by the London Horticultural Society in its catalog. In the
United States, too, it became quite generally known as Coe’s Late Red in
spite of the efforts of Prince, Downing and Elliott to have it pass under
its true name. The variety was mentioned in the American Pomological
Society’s catalogs from 1867 to 1897. It is described as follows:

    Fruit very late; of medium size, roundish, bright purplish-red
    with thin blue bloom; suture distinct; cavity shallow; stem
    of moderate length and thickness; flesh yellow, with a vinous
    flavor; fair to good; freestone.


SATSUMA

[Illustration: SATSUMA]

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ 366, 367. 1887. =2.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 652,
    Pl. I fig., 636. 1887. =3.= _Gard. & For._ =1=:471. 1888. =4.=
    Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 103. 1889. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 105,
    106, 125. 1891. =6.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 54. 1892. =7.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:29. 1894. =8.= _Rev. Hort._ 458. 1894.
    =9.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 96. 1895. =10.= _Guide Prat._ 165,
    366. 1895. =11.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:46, 53. 1896. =12.=
    _Ala. Col. Sta. Bul._ =85=:446. 1897. 13. _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =139=:38, 42. 1897. =14.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897. =15.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:243, 250. 1899. =16.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =175=:151. 1899. =17.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:158. 1899.
    =18.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 141. 1901. =19.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._
    =187=:77, 80. 1901. =20.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:14, 33, 34.
    1905. =21.= De Vries _Pl. Br._ 170. 1907.

    Beni Smono No. 4 ?6. _Blood Plum_ 7, 9, 16, 18, 20. Blood Plum?
    1. _Blood Plum No. 4_ ?9, 13. Blood Plum No. 4 ?11. _Honsmomo_
    11. Honsmomo ?9, 11. _Japan Blood Plum_ 3. _Sanguine_ 10.
    Satsuma Blood 4. _Yonemomo_ 5, 7, 9, 16, 20. _Yonesmomo_ 5, 20.

There is a group of several varieties of Triflora plums unique in having
the flesh deep red in color and very firm and juicy. Of these red-fleshed
plums, Satsuma was the first to be introduced into fruit-growing in
America and is one of the parents of most of the others. While the fruit
is not as large nor as handsome in color as in some of its offspring, it
is still one of the best varieties for quality of fruit and its trees
are possibly as good as those of any of the other sorts of red-fleshed
Trifloras. Satsuma, besides being one of the best of its class in quality
for either dessert or culinary purposes, keeps and ships very well and if
the plums are of sufficient size and have been allowed to color properly,
the variety makes a good showing on the markets. Too often, however, it
is so unattractive as it reaches the market that it does not sell well.
In the South the plums are said to be much attacked by brown-rot but they
are not more susceptible here than other plums. The trees are rather
above the average for the species in size, habit, health, hardiness and
productiveness though they bear sparingly when young. They bloom early in
the season and are distinguished from other Triflora sorts by having many
spurs and short branches along the main branches. Satsuma might possibly
be found worth growing commercially in a very small way in some parts of
the State.

Satsuma was raised from the same lot of plum pits from which the Burbank
came, the seeds having been sent to Luther Burbank by a Japanese agent
in 1883. In 1887 Burbank’s tree was the only bearing one in America but
since then it has been tested in all of the large plum regions, having
been introduced by Burbank in 1889. In 1897 it was added to the fruit
catalog list of the American Pomological Society. Even though this
plum is very distinct, with its solid red flesh, it is much confused
with other sorts. A Japanese in a letter[222] to L. A. Berckmans says
“Beni-Smomo comprises a group of red-fleshed plums. In Satsuma, my
native home, Hon-smomo and Yone-smomo are the most noted and familiar
fruits of this group, the first is the smallest in size and deepest in
color, while the second is the largest and most highly esteemed. In some
districts, plums in this group are called Uchi-Beni, which means red
inside.” Hon-smomo or Blood Plum No. 4 was separated from the Satsuma
or Yonemomo by the Georgia Horticultural Society but Bailey found them
indistinguishable.

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, upright-spreading, usually
    quite hardy, moderately productive, bearing heavier crops as
    the tree becomes older; branches grayish-brown; branchlets
    medium to above in thickness and length, with short internodes,
    dark chestnut-red, glabrous, with slightly raised lenticels
    of medium number and size; leaf-buds small, short, conical,
    appressed.

    Leaves somewhat lanceolate, four inches by one and one-half
    inches in size, of medium thickness; upper surface dark green,
    with a shallow, grooved midrib; lower surface light green,
    glabrous; margin finely and doubly crenate, glandular; petiole
    three-quarters inch long, tinged red, with from one to three
    reniform, greenish-yellow glands variable in size, usually at
    the base of the blade.

    Blossoms white; borne in pairs or in threes; pedicels
    nine-sixteenths inch long, slender, glabrous, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes medium in
    width, acute, somewhat serrate, with dark colored glands,
    glabrous, erect; petals tapering below to claws of medium
    length, reddish at the base.

    Fruit mid-season or later; one and seven-eighths inches
    by two inches in size, variable in shape, ranging from
    roundish-cordate to somewhat oblate, flattened at the base,
    compressed, halves unequal; cavity deep, narrow, abrupt,
    compressed; suture variable in depth, prominent; apex pointed
    or roundish; color dark dull red, with thin bloom; dots
    numerous, of medium size, russet, somewhat conspicuous,
    clustered about the apex; stem slender, three-eighths inch
    long, glabrous; skin of medium thickness and toughness, bitter,
    semi-adherent; flesh dark purplish-red, juicy, tender at the
    skin, becoming tough at the center, sweet, with an almond-like
    flavor; of good quality; stone semi-clinging or clinging,
    seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size, oval, strongly
    pointed, rough, tinged red; ventral suture narrow, winged;
    dorsal suture grooved.


SAUNDERS

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 143. 1885. =2.= _Can. Hort._ =14=:92,
    223. 1891. =3.= _Ibid._ =19=:253. 1896. =4.= _Ont. Exp. Sta.
    Rpt._ 45, 46. 1899. =5.= _Can. Hort._ =27=:244. 1904.

    _Saunders Seedling_ 5.

The American Pomological Society recommends this variety for trial with
the statement that the quality is of the best and that it is almost free
from black-knot. But on the grounds of this Station, fruiting for several
years, the plums have been inferior in size and somewhat so in quality
and all told much less attractive than a number of other sorts of the
same season. Saunders originated with John Arris of Belleville, Ontario,
Canada. It was first exhibited before the Fruit-Growers’ Association
of Ontario at St. Catherines in 1883. In 1884, upon its being again
exhibited before the same association, it was named Saunders in honor of
the society’s noted president. The variety was mentioned in the catalog
of the American Pomological Society in 1897.

    Tree of medium size, round-topped, very productive; branchlets
    brash, slender, very pubescent; leaves flattened, obovate or
    oval, one and three-quarters inches wide, four inches long,
    somewhat velvety, rugose; margin finely serrate, eglandular or
    with small dark glands; petiole pubescent, glandless or with
    from one to three small glands; blooming season intermediate in
    time and length; flowers appearing after the leaves, one and
    one-quarter inches across, white; borne on lateral buds and
    spurs, usually singly; pedicels very pubescent.

    Fruit early, season short; one and one-half inches by one
    and one-eighth inches in size, oblong-oval, greenish-yellow
    changing to golden-yellow, covered with thin bloom; skin thin,
    tender, slightly sour, cracking when fully mature; flesh
    yellowish, tender and melting, sweet, mild; of good quality;
    stone free, one inch by five-eighths inch in size, long-oval,
    flattened, with rough surfaces; ventral suture winged; dorsal
    suture with a narrow, shallow groove.


SERGEANT

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 49, 51. 1887. =2.= _Ibid._ 234,
    235. 1890. =3.= _Ibid._ 105. 1891. =4.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_
    357. 1891. =5.= _U. S. D. A. Div. Pom. Bul._ =7=:316, Pl. IV
    fig. 2. 1898. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1899. =7.= Waugh
    _Plum Cult._ 121. 1901.

    Prune d’Ente 2. _Prunier Datte_ 1. _Robe de Sergent_ 2, 5, 6.
    _Robe de Sergeant_ 7. Robe de Sergent 1, 3, 4.

In France, from whence Sergeant was imported to California, Sergeant,
Agen and Prunier Datte are held to be identical. But in America only
the first and last are identical, the Agen being quite distinct. It
would seem that the French should know their own plums and that their
nomenclature should be accepted but the Sergeant is now so widely
distributed in America as distinct that we give a brief description
of the plum. There may be more than one type of the Agen in France or
American nurserymen may have received wrongly named varieties.

    Tree upright, with branches and branchlets thickish, more
    robust than Agen; foliage large, lancet-shaped, glossy, much
    broader and more shiny than Agen; fruit mid-season; of medium
    size, roundish-oval, enlarged on one side; skin deep purple to
    blackish with a thick bloom; flesh greenish-yellow, juicier
    than Agen, sweet, high flavored; quality good; stone partially
    clinging; valuable for preserving and drying.


SHARP

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 315. 1845. =3.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ 63, Pl. 1859. =4.=
    _Cultivator_ =8=:25 fig. 1860. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    948. 1869. =6.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 358. 1895. =7.= _Jour. Roy.
    Hort. Soc._ =21=: Pt. 2, 222. 1897. =8.= _Waugh Plum Cult._
    122, 123 fig. 1901.

    _Alderton_ 5. _Dolphin_ 5. _Dauphin_ 5. _Denyer’s Victoria_
    ?2, 5, 7. _Empereur de Sharp_ 3, 6. _Imperial de Sharp_ 5.
    Imperiale de Sharp 6. Prune Imperiale de Sharp 3. _Queen
    Victoria_ ?2. _Royal Dauphine_ 5. Sharp 8 incor. Sharp’s
    Emperor 1, 2 incor., 4, 5 incor. _Sharp’s Emperor_ 3, 6, 8
    incor. Sharpe’s Emperor 7. _Sharps Kaiserpflaume_ 6. _Victoria_
    5, 8 incor.

Sharp was briefly described in the London Horticultural Society catalog
in 1831. Later, in 1845, A. J. Downing described the variety but thought
it identical with the Victoria, as did other writers, as will be seen
by referring to the Victoria. H. A. Pearson in the _Journal of the
Royal Horticultural Society_, comparing these two sorts says, “Sharp’s
Emperor is a second rate plum, resembling Victoria, in appearance, but
very inferior in point of cropping and quality, a decided clingstone,
often gumming at the stone, and ripening a fortnight later than its
supposed synonym, not worthy of cultivation.” August Royer in the _Annals
de Pomologie Belge et Etrangere_ also separated the two varieties but
describes them both as freestones. While there is a lack of uniformity
in the descriptions yet the total evidence weighs in favor of two types
which are very similar. The Victoria is probably the better plum of the
two.


SHELDRAKE

_Prunus domestica_

Although extremely vigorous and productive this variety is so inferior
in quality as to be of doubtful value. Sheldrake originated as a chance
seedling on the shore of Cayuga Lake near the town of Sheldrake, New
York. It was discovered and propagated by J. T. Hunt of Kendaia, New
York, and has been under test at the Geneva Station since 1895.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, productive; branchlets
    thick, with long internodes, pubescent; leaves drooping,
    somewhat flattened, oval, nearly two and one-half inches wide,
    four and one-quarter inches long; margin serrate with few,
    small, dark glands; petiole pubescent, tinged red, thick,
    glandless or with from one to four rather large glands usually
    at the base of the leaf; blooming season intermediate in time,
    short; flowers appearing after the leaves, nearly one and
    one-quarter inches across; borne singly or in pairs.

    Fruit rather early; one and one-half inches by one and
    three-eighths inches in size, roundish-oblong; cavity very
    deep, abrupt; color purplish-black, overspread with thick
    bloom; dots conspicuous; stem thickly pubescent; skin thin,
    tender, slightly acid; flesh yellow, tender, sweet next the
    skin, but sour near the center, inferior in flavor; poor
    in quality; stone dark-colored, semi-clinging, one inch by
    three-quarters inch in size, broadly ovate or irregularly oval,
    flattened, with roughened and granular surfaces; ventral suture
    prominent, blunt.


SHIPPER

[Illustration: SHIPPER]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =24=:339. 1882. =2.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ =31=:60. 1886. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:191, fig.
    42. 1897. =4.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:243, 247. 1899. =5.=
    _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:56. 1900. =6.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =187=:77, 79. 1901. =7.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 119. 1901.

    Pride 7. _Shipper Pride_ 4. _Shippers’ Pride_ 7. Shipper’s
    Pride 1, 2, 3, 5, 8.

This plum has never become an important commercial variety in New York
yet it is offered for sale by a surprisingly large number of nurserymen.
The variety has too many faults to succeed in competition with the many
good plums of its color and season. The flesh is dry and the plums often
shrivel on the tree, characters which fit it for shipping, but which when
taken with poor quality and small size make it of little value after it
reaches the market. Moreover it fruits sparingly under many conditions,
though productive here, and the plums ripen somewhat unevenly and are
susceptible to brown-rot. Some pomologists give a rather better estimate
of the variety than that expressed here, but from all data at hand the
value of the plum is not underestimated in the above statements. There
are a great many better plums for New York than Shipper.

This variety was introduced by Mr. H. S. Wiley of Cayuga, New York. The
plum was found by Mr. Wiley in a private garden at Port Byron, New York,
about 1877. The man upon whose place it grew thought that it came from a
stone of one of the several varieties in his garden but Mr. Wiley is not
sure of this origin and suggests that it may have sprouted from a root.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, hardy, productive;
    branches thick, ash-gray, smooth except for the raised
    lenticels; branchlets of medium thickness and length, with
    long internodes, green changing to brownish-drab and with a
    red tinge, dull, covered with thick pubescence throughout the
    season, with inconspicuous lenticels of medium number and size;
    leaf-buds small, short, conical, appressed.

    Leaves many, flattened or folded upward, obovate or oval, one
    and three-quarters inches wide, three and one-half inches
    long, thick, leathery; upper surface dark green, hairy, with a
    grooved midrib; lower surface silvery-green, thick, pubescent;
    apex abruptly pointed or acute, base acute, margin serrate or
    crenate, eglandular or with small dark glands; petiole one-half
    inch long, thick, pubescent, with a red tinge, glandless or
    with one or two globose, yellowish-green glands usually at the
    base of the leaf.

    Season of bloom intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing with the leaves, nearly one and one-quarter inches
    across, white; borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in
    pairs; pedicels three-quarters inch long, pubescent, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes obtuse,
    lightly pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate and with
    marginal hairs, reflexed; petals broadly oval or obovate,
    slightly crenate or occasionally notched, with short, broad
    claws; anthers yellow; filaments five-sixteenths inch long;
    pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit late, intermediate in length of ripening season; one
    and one-half inches by one and three-eighths inches in
    size, ovate, swollen on the suture side, compressed, halves
    equal; cavity shallow, abrupt; suture shallow; apex bluntly
    pointed; color purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom;
    dots small, russet, somewhat conspicuous; stem seven-eighths
    inch long, pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin,
    tender, separating readily; flesh greenish-yellow, rather
    tart, firm, sweet, mild in flavor; inferior in quality;
    stone semi-clinging, often with red tinge near the edge,
    seven-eighths inch by three-quarters inch in size, irregular
    roundish-ovate, turgid, rough, blunt at the base and apex;
    ventral suture wide, ridged, distinctly winged; dorsal suture
    wide, deep.


SHIRO

[Illustration: SHIRO]

_Prunus simonii × Prunus triflora × Prunus cerasifera × Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 53 fig. 1897. =2.= Burbank _Cat._
    1899. 3. Waugh _Plum Cult._ 225. 1901. =4.= _Rural N. Y._
    =62=:582. 1903.

    _Late Klondike_ 1.

Shiro has been in the hands of fruit-growers too short a time to permit
a just estimate of it to be made. As the variety grows on the grounds of
this Station, the fruits are large and handsome in form and color, as is
well shown in the illustration. The flavor lacks character and is almost
insipid but the flesh is tender, melting and juicy and so translucent
that the pit can be seen through the flesh. Despite the flavor, the
plum is pleasant to eat and may be ranked as good in quality. Those who
have had experience say that the variety ships very well if not fully
mature but quickly goes down after ripening; the plums are also quite
susceptible to brown-rot. The trees of this variety at Geneva are quite
as vigorous, hardy, and productive as any of the sorts which Mr. Burbank
gives as progenitors of Shiro and will generally, it is believed, surpass
any of them in these respects. It may here be remarked that of the four
species from which Shiro is supposed to have come, it most resembles
_Prunus triflora_ in both tree and fruit though the leaves have some
resemblance to those of _Prunus cerasifera_. Shiro is still, so far as
New York is concerned, in the list of plums deserving trial but with the
chances against its becoming of great value either for home or commercial
plantations.

This is another of Burbank’s plums and is said to be a descendant of
Robinson, (_Prunus munsoniana_,) Myrobalan, (_Prunus cerasifera_), and
Wickson, (a cross of _Prunus triflora_ and _Prunus simonii_) from seed of
Wickson. Burbank in his catalog for 1889 says that the tree resembles a
Myrobalan in foliage, growth and general appearance. But as the variety
grows at this Station it has all the appearances of a Triflora. Shiro was
described in the California State Board of Horticulture Report for 1898
and the following year it was introduced by the originator.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, tender to cold,
    productive; branches smooth, somewhat thorny, dull ash-gray,
    with few, small lenticels; branchlets slender, above medium
    in length, with short internodes, greenish-red changing to
    brownish-drab, glabrous, with inconspicuous, scattering, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds small, very short, obtuse, strongly
    appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate, one and five-sixteenths inches
    wide, two and three-quarters inches long, leathery; upper
    surface faintly rugose, glabrous, with a grooved midrib; lower
    surface lightly pubescent along the midrib and larger veins;
    apex acutely pointed, base rather acute, margin finely crenate,
    with small, dark glands; petiole three-eighths inch long,
    pubescent along one side, greenish-red, glandless or with one
    or two small, globose, yellowish glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season early and of medium length; flowers appearing
    before the leaves, white; borne in clusters on lateral buds and
    spurs; pedicels short, glabrous, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes obtuse, glandular-serrate,
    glabrous on the outer side, sparingly pubescent within, with a
    pink margin, erect; petals roundish, entire, tapering to short,
    abrupt claws; anthers yellow with a reddish tinge; filaments
    below medium in length; pistil glabrous, longer than the
    stamens.

    Fruit very early, season short; one and one-half inches
    in diameter, roundish-conic, with halves equal; cavity
    intermediate in depth and width, flaring, regular; suture an
    indistinct line; apex roundish; color light yellow becoming
    deeper yellow as the season advances, occasionally with a
    blush of pink, with thin bloom; dots numerous, very minute,
    whitish, inconspicuous; stem three-eighths inch long, adhering
    to the fruit; skin thin, tough, sour, occasionally cracking,
    separating readily, although a thin coating of flesh is left
    clinging to the skin; flesh light yellow, semi-transparent,
    the stone being faintly visible, very juicy, fibrous, somewhat
    melting, sweet, mild, lacks character in flavor; good; stone
    clinging, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    broadly oval, flattened, slightly elongated at the base, with
    rough surfaces; ventral suture faintly ridged and furrowed;
    dorsal suture very lightly grooved.


SHROPSHIRE

[Illustration: SHROPSHIRE]

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= _Rea Flora_ 209. 1676. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146.
    1831. =3.= _Prince Pom. Man._ =2=:90. 1832. =4.= _Loudon Enc.
    Gard_. 921. 1834. 5. Downing _Fr. Trees Am_. 297. 1845. 6.
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 282, 383. 1846. =7.= Thompson
    _Gard. Ass’t_ 520. 1859. =8.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 377. 1866.
    =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875. =10.= Hogg _Fruit Man._
    695. 1884. =11.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 289. 1889. =12.= _Am.
    Gard._ =14=:146 fig., 147, 148. 1893. =13.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =131=:192 fig. 46. 1897. 14. _Garden_ =53=:265. 1898. 15. _Mich.
    Sta. Bul_. =169=:243, 247. 1899. 16. Waugh _Plum Cult._ 130 fig.
    1901. =17.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =134=:44. 1902. =18.= _Ga. Sta.
    Bul._ =67=:281 fig. 1904.

    _Cheshire_ =14.= _Damascene_ 8, 10, 14. _Damson Plum_ 3.
    Long Damson 2. _Long Damson_ 7, 8, 10. Pruine Damson? 1.
    _Prune Damson_ 2, 4, 5, 7, 14. Prune Damson 6, 8. Prune 10.
    _Shropshire Damson_ ?6, 8, 10, 15, 16, 17. Shropshire Damson 2,
    3, 4, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 18.

In America, Shropshire is probably the best known of the Damsons, being
found not only in nearly all commercial plantations but in the smallest
home collections as well. The qualities which make it so generally a
favorite are for most part those of the tree, the French surpassing it
in size and in quality of the fruit. The trees of the variety under
notice are not surpassed by any other Insititia in size, vigor, hardiness
and health nor are they, except in size, by any other European plum.
Shropshire is enormously productive, bearing its load of fruit year after
year until it is a standard among fruits for productivity and reliability
in bearing. The trees have but one defect,—unless sprayed the foliage
falls prey to fungi and drops early. The trees are comparatively easy to
manage in such orchard operations as pruning, spraying and harvesting
as they are not so thick-topped, twiggy and spiny as other Damsons. The
fruit is of very good size and while in no sense a dessert plum may be
eaten out of hand with relish when fully ripe or after a light frost—a
point worth considering where only Damsons can be grown. It is one of the
best of its kind for culinary purposes. This old variety is still to be
recommended for both home and market.

Shropshire originated in England, sometime in the Seventeenth Century.
It was noted by American writers early in the Nineteenth Century and
in 1875 was placed on the American Pomological Society’s fruit catalog
list. Shropshire is a more familiar name in fruit literature than the
references given indicate, being found in practically every English
discussion of plums since 1676 and in all American notices of this fruit
since Prince wrote in 1832. For a fruit so long under cultivation, it has
few synonyms.

    Tree large, vigorous, vasiform, hardy, productive; main
    branches numerous, ash-gray, smooth except for numerous scars
    from small spur-like branches, with many, small lenticels;
    branchlets twiggy, slender, with short internodes, green
    changing to dark brownish-drab, dull, covered with heavy
    pubescence throughout the season, with numerous, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds below medium in size, short, conical,
    appressed.

    Leaves flattened, obovate, about one inch wide, two inches
    long, thin; upper surface dark green, pubescent along the
    grooved midrib; lower surface a paler green, with thin
    pubescence; apex obtuse or acute, base acute, margin finely
    serrate, eglandular; petiole one-half inch long, slender,
    greenish-red, with little pubescence, glandless or with one or
    two small, globose, greenish-yellow glands usually at the base
    of the leaf.

    Season of bloom medium; flowers seven-eighths inch across,
    white; borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs, singly or
    in pairs; pedicels three-eighths inch long, slender, glabrous,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    narrow, acute, glabrous, the margin glandular-ciliate,
    reflexed; petals roundish-oval, entire, short-clawed; anthers
    yellow; filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous,
    shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit late, season long; one and one-half inches by one inch in
    size, oval, compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow,
    flaring; suture an indistinct line; apex roundish; color
    purplish-black, overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous,
    small, russet, inconspicuous; stem slender, one-half inch long,
    glabrous, adhering to the fruit; skin thin, tender, adhering;
    flesh golden-yellow, juicy, firm but tender, agreeably tart
    at full maturity, sprightly, pleasant; stone clinging,
    three-quarters inch by one-half inch in size, oval, acute at
    the base, blunt at the apex, with nearly smooth surfaces;
    ventral suture broad, blunt; dorsal suture acute, with a
    narrow, shallow, indistinct groove.


SIMON

_Prunus simonii_

    =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 111. 1872. =2.= _Horticulturist_ =27=:196.
    1872. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 374, 378. 1881. =4.= _Ibid._
    321. 1884. =5.= _Rural N. Y._ =45=:689 fig. 389. 1886. =6.=
    _Ibid._ =46=:766. 1887. =7.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 53, 99.
    1889. =8.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 444. 1889. =9.= _Cal. State Bd.
    Hort. Rpt._ 236, Pl. II figs. 1 and 2, 238. 1890. =10.= _Rev.
    Hort._ 152 fig. 40. 1891. =11.= _Penin. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 68.
    1891. =12.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =51=:55. 1893. =13.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =103=:35. 1894. =14.= _Guide Prat._ 164, 362. 1895. =15.=
    _Neb. State Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 175. 1895. =16.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._
    =73=:192. 1897. =17.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:29. 1898. =18.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 41. 1899. =19.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 14, 38, 234.
    1901.

    _Apricot Plum_ 12, 19. Apricot Plum 9, 11. Plum Simon 2. _Prune
    Eugene Simon_ 8. _Prunier de Simon_ 8, 14. Prunus simoni 4, 7,
    17. _Prunus Simonii_ 2. Prunus Simonii 1, 3, 6, 8, 10, 11, 14,
    16, 19. _Prunus simoni_ 8. _Simon_ 19. _Simon’s Chinese Apricot
    Plum_ 7. Simon’s Peach 15. Simon’s Plum 5.

The Simon plum, a horticultural variety, constitutes the species _Prunus
simonii_ and has been fully discussed in the chapter of this text dealing
with the botany of the plum. It is given further notice only to introduce
the horticultural references and history and to estimate briefly its
value in fruit-growing. As to the latter it may be said that the fruit is
for most people unpalatable, and therefore of little worth as an edible
product. Some of the crosses of which this variety is one parent are
well known and esteemed in pomology and the Simon plum undoubtedly has
value for plum-breeding in the future. The tree, where it succeeds, is
a handsome ornamental. In New York the variety seems hardy wherever the
peach can be grown and thrives on the same types of soils—sands, gravels
and light loams. The tree is subject to diseases and unless well sprayed
is liable to be short-lived. The variety can be recommended in New York
only to the breeder of plums and for those who want the tree as an
ornamental or a curiosity.

This interesting and distinct plum was obtained in China by Eugene Simon,
a French consul, who sent it to the Paris Museum of Natural History
in 1867. Later it was disseminated by the nurseries of Simon Brothers
at Plantières-Les-Metz. The date of its introduction into America is
unknown, though it was offered for sale by the eastern nurseries as
early as 1881. Ellwanger and Barry of Rochester secured their stock from
France a few years previous to the date given but whether they were the
only importers cannot be said. In 1899 the American Pomological Society
added Simon to its catalog list. The variety is fully described under its
species.


SIMPSON

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:161. 1899. =2.= _Ibid._ =162=:256, 257.
    1905.

The fruit of Simpson is too small and is so much below the average of its
type, that of the Yellow Egg, in quality that it is not worth general
introduction. It is given attention here chiefly as a matter of record.
Although unquestionably a Domestica, Simpson was found growing wild in
the woods west of Peoria, Illinois. It was introduced by H. Augustine of
Normal, Illinois, about 1888.

    Tree large, very vigorous, upright-spreading, dense, very
    productive; branchlets slender, with long internodes, thickly
    pubescent; leaf-buds large, long; leaves flattened, oval,
    intermediate in width and length; margin serrate, eglandular;
    petiole pubescent, glandless or with from one to three globose
    glands usually on the stalk; flowers one inch across, borne in
    scattering clusters, singly or in pairs; calyx-lobes thickly
    pubescent on both surfaces.

    Fruit mid-season; one and one-half inches by one and
    three-eighths inches in size, oval, golden-yellow, covered with
    thin bloom; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, firm but tender, sweet,
    mild; good; stone semi-free, seven-eighths inch by one-half
    inch in size, oval, acute at the base; ventral suture usually
    winged; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


SMALL REINE CLAUDE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:91. 1768. =2.= Kraft _Pom.
    Aust._ 39, Tab. 189 fig. 2. 1796. =3.= M’Mahon _Am. Gard.
    Cat._ 587. 1806. =4.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147, 148, 154.
    1831. =5.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:49. 1832. =6.= _Mag. Hort_.
    =9=:164. 1843. =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 288. 1845. =8.=
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 284, 383. 1846. =9.= Thomas
    _Am. Fruit Cult._ 330. 1849. =10.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    913. 1869. =11.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:93. 1873. =12.= Oberdieck
    _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 435. 1881. =13.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 732.
    1884. =14.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437. 1889.

    Die kleine Königin Claudia 2. English Yellow Gage 9, 10.
    _English Yellow Gage_ 11, 14. _Gonne’s Green Gage_ 6, 7,
    10, 13, 14. Gonne’s Green Gage 4. _Kibitzenei_ 14. _Kleine
    Dauphine_ 14. Kleine Reine-Claude 12, 14. _Kleine Weisse
    Damascene_ 12, 14. _Kleine Reine-Claude_ 11. _Kleine Grüne
    Reine-Claude_ 11, 12, 14. _Little Reine Claude_ 5. _Little
    Queen Claude_ 7, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14. Little Queen Claude
    8. Little Queen Claudia 3. Little Queen Claudia 5. Petite
    Reine-Claude 1, 11. _Petite Reine-Claude_ 2, 5, 7, 8, 10.
    _Petit Damas Vert_ 13, 14. _Reine-Claude Petite Espece_ 14.
    _Reine-Claude Blanche Petite Espece_ 5, 6, 7, 10. _Reine-Claude
    Blanche_ 6, 7, 10, 14. _Reine-Claude Petite_ 13, 14. _Reine
    Claude_ (of some) 6. _Small Green Gage_ 5, 7, 10, 14. _Small
    Queen Claude_ 5. _White Gage_ 6, 7, 10, 13, 14. White Gage 4.
    Yellow Gage 4, 6, 7, 13. _Yellow Gage_ 11, 14.

Small Reine Claude, an old variety of unknown origin, is now probably
obsolete. Thomas and Downing described it as an English Yellow Gage but
it cannot be found that it is ever so called in Europe. Since the variety
was known in France and Austria in the latter part of the Eighteenth
Century it is quite certain that it originated on the continent. From its
name and close resemblance to the Reine Claude it is safe to state that
it is a seedling of that sort. It is described as follows:

    Tree of normal vigor; branches smooth; flowers small; fruit
    medium in size, nearly spherical, truncated on the stem side
    and slightly on the apex; suture wide and distinct, thus
    differing from the Reine Claude; stem medium in length; cavity
    shallow; skin tender, yellowish-green, often splashed with red
    on the sunny side; flesh greenish-yellow, fine, a little firm,
    sweet, rich and pleasant; freestone; ripens earlier than the
    Reine Claude.


SMITH ORLEANS

[Illustration: SMITH ORLEANS]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 27. 1828. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:68. 1832. =3.= _Mag. Hort._ =9=:410. 1843. =4.= Downing
    _Fr. Trees Am._ 304, 305 fig. 125. 1845. =5.= _Mag. Hort._
    =14=:152, 153 fig. 16. 1848. =6.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 214 fig.
    1849. =7.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 343. 1849. =8.= Elliott
    _Fr. Book_ 424. 1854. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 210. 1856.
    =10.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 252. 1857. =11.= Hogg _Fruit Man._
    382. 1866. =12.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889. =13.= _Ont. Fr.
    Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 52. 1895. =14.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:192.
    1897.

    Cooper’s 5. _Cooper’s Large_ 5. _Cooper’s Large Red_ 5.
    _Cooper’s Red_ 6. _Duane’s Purple_ 3 incor. _La Delicieuse_
    8. _Large Orleans_ 3. _Large Purple_ 3 incor. _Monsieur de
    Smith_ 12. _Purple Magnum Bonum_ 3. _Red Magnum Bonum_ incor.
    3, 4, 5, 6, 12. _Smith’s large Orleans_ 2. Smith’s Orleans 1,
    2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14. _Smith’s Orleans_ 5, 12.
    Smith’s Orleans Pflaume 12. _Smith’s Herrn Pflaume_ 12. _Violet
    Perdrigon_ incor. 3, 4, 5, 6, 12. _Violetter Perdrigon_ 12
    incor.

In the middle of the last century, Smith Orleans was considered about
the best plum of its color in America. But the fruit is not high in
quality, the texture of the flesh is coarse and it ripens at a time when
fruits are plentiful, for which reasons it has ceased to be regarded with
favor by either the amateur or the professional fruit-grower. The trees,
however, seem to have some remarkably desirable characters and it may
be that the variety should be retained for some locations and purposes
and to breed from, at least. If the older pomologists have written truly
few plums are adapted to a greater range of climates and soils than this
one; so, too, the trees are usually spoken of as of large size, vigorous,
healthy, of great productiveness and as holding the crop well. The trees
in the soil and climate of this Station are quite as the older writers
describe them and were the fruit only better in quality and somewhat more
attractive in appearance, the variety could be highly recommended for a
market plum and as a fruit for culinary purposes in the home orchard.

William Prince, in 1828, in his _Treatise on Horticulture_, briefly
described Smith Orleans, and seventeen years later A. J. Downing gave
a short history of the variety. It is a seedling of the Orleans raised
about 1825 by a Mr. Smith of Gowanus, Long Island, New York. By an error
the variety was sent out as the Violet, or Blue Perdrigon, a smaller and
very different fruit. Charles M. Hovey of Massachusetts, who secured
trees of the Cooper from Prince, about 1831, believed this variety to
be identical with the Smith Orleans in all characters. Downing could
not agree with him but the present writers find that the two varieties
are so much alike that it is impossible to distinguish between them. As
is suggested under Cooper, they may be identical or they may have come
true to seed from the same parent. The American Pomological Society
recommended this plum for general cultivation in 1856.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, very productive;
    trunk rather rough; branches smooth, with few lenticels;
    branchlets of medium thickness and length, with long
    internodes, green changing to dark brownish-red, covered with
    thin bloom, lightly pubescent early in the season becoming
    almost glabrous at maturity, with few, small lenticels;
    leaf-buds of medium size and length, conical, appressed.

    Leaves flattened or somewhat folded backward, obovate, two
    inches wide, three and five-eighths inches long, thick,
    velvety; upper surface dark green, rugose, with but few
    hairs along the narrow, deeply grooved midrib; lower surface
    silvery-green, covered with thick pubescence; apex abruptly
    pointed or acute, base acute, margin crenate, with few small,
    dark brown glands; petiole one-half inch long, heavily
    pubescent, tinged red along one side, glandless or with one or
    two small, globose, yellow glands usually at the base of the
    leaf.

    Season of bloom medium, short; flowers appearing with the
    leaves, one and one-quarter inches across, white, with a yellow
    tinge; borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs; pedicels
    five-eighths inch long, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green,
    campanulate, with few scattering hairs; calyx-lobes above
    medium in width, obtuse, sparingly pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate and with marginal hairs, reflexed; petals
    broad-obovate or oval, crenate, tapering to long claws of
    medium width; anthers yellow, filaments seven-sixteenths inch
    long; pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season, one
    and five-eighths inches by one and one-half inches in size,
    oval, compressed, halves somewhat unequal; cavity shallow,
    narrow, abrupt; suture very shallow or sometimes a line; apex
    roundish or depressed; color dark purplish-black, overspread
    with thick bloom; dots numerous small, russet, inconspicuous;
    stem three-quarters inch long, pubescent, adhering to the
    fruit; skin below medium in thickness, tender, sour, separating
    readily; flesh pale yellow, juicy, tender, sweet, of pleasant
    flavor; good; stone clinging, one inch by five-eighths inch in
    size, oval, with very rough and deeply pitted surfaces, usually
    somewhat flattened, tapering abruptly at the base, blunt at the
    apex; ventral suture wide, blunt; dorsal suture with a groove
    variable in depth and width.


SOPHIE

_Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263, Pl. VI. 1892. =2.= Kerr _Cat._
    1894. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 189. 1901.

Sophie is fast being lost sight of among the multitudes of native plums
recently introduced. Without any very distinct merits it yet stands high
among plums of its kind. The variety is a seedling of Wild Goose at first
supposed by the originator, J. W. Kerr,[223] of Denton, Maryland, to
have been pollinated by a German Prune which stood near. This is hardly
the case, however, as no trace of Domestica blood can be detected in
the variety. It is mentioned by the American Pomological Society in its
catalog for 1899.

    Tree large, very vigorous, spreading, open-topped, productive;
    branches thorny, shaggy, with long and unbranched limbs;
    branchlets willowy, slender; leaves folded upward, oval, one
    and three-quarters inches wide, three and one-quarter inches
    long, thin; margin shallowly crenate, with small, dark glands;
    petiole slender, pubescent, with from one to three small
    glands; blooming season late, long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, nearly three-quarters inch across, white, pinkish as
    they open, with a disagreeable odor; borne in twos or threes;
    anthers yellow with an orange-red tinge.

    Fruit maturing later than Wild Goose; large, one and
    three-eighths inches by one and one-eighth inches in size,
    obovate, slightly necked, pear-shaped, bright red, covered
    with thin bloom; dots conspicuous; stem slender, long; flesh
    deep yellow, juicy, coarse and fibrous, subacid, flat; of fair
    quality; stone clinging, three-quarters inch by three-eighths
    inch in size, somewhat angular, irregular-obovate, with a
    peculiar elongated, flattened, oblique base; apex abruptly
    acute; surfaces rough.


SPAULDING

[Illustration: SPAULDING]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Lovett _Cat._ =41=, Col. Pl. 1888. 2. _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =131=:192. 1897. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:243, 248. 1899.
    =4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1899. =5.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._
    =101=:121, 122, Pl. V. 1901. =6.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 122. 1901.
    =7.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:239. 1905.

Among the plums of comparatively recent introduction Spaulding holds
a conspicuous place. It is particularly highly spoken of for its good
quality and while not recommended for commercial orchards is often
mentioned as very desirable for home use. As Spaulding grows at this
Station, it does not sustain the reputation it has elsewhere. It is of
the Reine Claude group of plums and while of high quality is not as good
a dessert plum as several other similar sorts. Moreover, the fruits are
small and too light in color to be especially attractive in appearance.
The plums, too, are quite susceptible to brown-rot. The tree-characters
of this variety are in the main very good but not at all out of the
ordinary. It is very doubtful whether this sort can compete for any
purpose with such similar plums as Hand, Jefferson, Washington, Bavay,
Reine Claude, McLaughlin and Imperial Gage. It may be worthy a trial
elsewhere in New York with the hope that it will more nearly approach the
reputation that it has in other states than it does at Geneva—at best it
cannot be more than a home variety.

Spaulding was brought to the notice of fruit-growers by J. T. Lovett,
Little Silver, New Jersey, who introduced the variety in 1888. The
plum came to Mr. Lovett from Francis Garriel with the statement that
it originated as a seedling in the yard of Mr. Garriel’s father in the
Bowery, New York City. From the resemblance of Spaulding to the Imperial
Gage it is probable that they are closely related. In 1899 the variety
was placed on the fruit catalog list of the American Pomological Society
as a successful variety in the north-eastern part of the United States
and the neighboring parts of Canada.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, dense-topped, hardy,
    productive; branches ash-gray, smooth except for the raised
    lenticels of various sizes; branchlets of medium thickness
    and length, with long internodes, greenish-red changing to
    brownish-red, dull, lightly pubescent throughout the season,
    with obscure, small lenticels; leaf-buds of medium size and
    length, conical, appressed; leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves folded upward, nearly two inches wide, three and
    one-quarter inches long, thick; upper surface dark green,
    rugose, glabrous, with a shallow groove on the midrib; lower
    surface silvery-green, pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or
    acute, base acute, margin serrate or crenate, with small,
    dark glands; petiole nearly five-eighths inch long, thick,
    pubescent, tinged red, with from one to four small, globose,
    greenish glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length, one inch or
    more across, white with a yellowish tinge at the apex of the
    petals in the newly opened flowers; borne on lateral spurs,
    singly or in pairs; pedicels three-eighths inch long, thick,
    pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, lightly
    pubescent; calyx-lobes obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals oblong, crenate, not
    clawed; anthers yellow; filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil
    glabrous or occasionally with a few hairs near the base, longer
    than the stamens; stigma large.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period long; one and five-eighths
    inches by one and three-eighths inches in size, oblong-oval
    or ovate, compressed, halves equal; cavity small, shallow,
    abrupt; suture shallow, often a line; apex roundish; color
    dull greenish-yellow, with stripes and splashes of light
    green, overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous, small,
    whitish, inconspicuous; stem three-quarters inch long, lightly
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, tender,
    separating readily; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, fibrous,
    tender, sweet, mild, pleasant; very good; stone semi-free or
    free, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size, ovate,
    turgid, slightly pitted, blunt at the base, nearly acute at
    the apex; ventral suture rather broad, slightly furrowed, with
    a distinct but short wing; dorsal suture widely and deeply
    grooved.


STANTON

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =29=:116. 1887. =2.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
    288. 1889. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:192. 1897.

    Stanton’s Seedling 2.

This plum appears to be a very good late variety in several respects;
it is a long-keeping fruit, is of very good quality for dessert and is
a fine plum for canning and preserving. Its faults are that it is tardy
in coming into bearing and the fruits drop badly from the trees as they
begin to ripen; in localities where these faults are marked the variety
is worthless. Stanton originated as a chance seedling in Albany County,
New York, from whence it was sent to Hammond and Willard of Geneva, New
York, who introduced it about 1885.

    Tree very large and vigorous, round-topped, variable in
    productiveness; branches slender, marked by transverse cracks
    in the bark; leaf-scars enlarged; leaves folded upward, oval
    or obovate, one and one-half inches wide, three inches long;
    margin finely and doubly crenate, with few, dark glands;
    petiole short, glandless or with from one to three small glands
    usually on the stalk; blooming season intermediate in time and
    length; flowers appearing after the leaves, one and one-eighth
    inches across, borne in scattering clusters on lateral buds and
    spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit late, season long; about one and one-quarter inches in
    diameter, roundish-oblate, truncate, purplish-black, overspread
    with very heavy bloom; flesh bright golden-yellow, fibrous,
    very sweet, rather high-flavored; good to very good; stone
    semi-free, three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in size,
    irregular roundish-oval, turgid, with a blunt and oblique base,
    the surfaces nearly smooth; ventral suture enlarged, often with
    a short, distinct wing; dorsal suture shallow.


STODDARD

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 78. 1892. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._
    88. 1895. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1899. =4.= _Ia. Sta.
    Bul._ =46=:289. 1900. =5.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 478, Pl. LXII.
    1902.

    _Baker_ 2. Stoddart 1, 2.

Stoddard is usually rated as one of the best of the Americana plums and
its behavior on the grounds of this Station sustains its reputation.
The firmness of the fruit makes it a good shipping plum of its kind
and season. This variety was discovered by B. F. Stoddard of Jesup,
Buchanan County, Iowa, about 1875, growing in a garden owned by Mrs.
Caroline Baker who stated that her husband secured the trees from the
woods, presumably along the Maquoketa River. The variety was subsequently
introduced by J. Wragg and Sons of Waukee, Iowa, at dates variously
reported from 1890 to 1895.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, productive; trunk
    shaggy; branches slender, thorny; branchlets slender, with
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaves falling early,
    flattened, oval or obovate, two and one-quarter inches wide,
    four inches long; margin coarsely serrate, eglandular; petiole
    tinged red, glandless or with from one to three glands usually
    on the stalk; blooming season late; flowers appearing with the
    leaves, one inch across, white.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season; about
    one and three-eighths inches in diameter, roundish-oblate;
    suture a distinct red line; color light to dark red over
    a yellow ground, mottled, covered with thick bloom; skin
    astringent; flesh dark golden-yellow, very juicy, tender
    and melting, rather sweet next the skin but tart near the
    center, with a characteristic flavor; good; stone clinging,
    seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size, roundish to
    broad-oval, strongly flattened, with smooth surfaces; ventral
    suture narrow, winged.


STONELESS

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:110, Pl. 20 fig. 14. 1768.
    =2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:42, Tab. 194 fig. 2. 1796. =3.=
    _Mag. Hort._ =9=:165. 1843. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1. 1846.
    =5.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:121, fig. 61. 1873. =6.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 726. 1884. =7.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.

    Die Pflaume ohne Stein 2. _Jean Morceau_ 3. _Kirke’s Stoneless_
    6, 7. _Pflaume Ohne Steine_ 5. _Pitless_ 5, 7. Prune Sans-Noyau
    4. Sans-Noyau 1, 5. _Sans Noyau_ 3, 6, 7. Steinlose Zwetsche 7.
    _Stoneless_ 5, 7.

This curious plum is attracting attention because of the publicity given
it by Burbank in his breeding work. The variety is at least three hundred
years old. It was known to Merlet, writing in the Seventeenth Century,
and has been mentioned in plum literature many times since. The plum is
remarkable because of the entire absence of a stone, the kernel lying
naked in a cavity much larger than itself. The variety is worthless
but presents opportunities for breeding purposes that should not be
overlooked. Judging from the fruit-characters as given below it belongs
to _Prunus insititia_. The Stoneless is supposed to have been introduced
into England from the Royal Gardens at Versailles by George London. It
was long sold as Kirke’s Stoneless, having been much advertised by Kirke,
a nurseryman at Brompton, England. It is described as follows:

    Fruit small, oval, dark purple, with thick bloom; flesh
    greenish-yellow, harsh and strongly acid at first but assuming
    a more pleasant flavor as it shrivels upon the tree.


SUGAR

[Illustration: SUGAR]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 47. 1897-98. =2.= Burbank _Cat._ 5
    fig. 1899. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 124. 1901. =4.= _U. S. D. A.
    Rpt._ 275, Pl. XXXVI fig. 2. 1903.

    Sugar Prune 1, 4.

The introduction of Sugar to the Atlantic States was preceded by very
flattering accounts of it from the originator, Mr. Burbank, and from
Pacific Coast plum-growers. Possibly our expectations were too high;
for we have been greatly disappointed in this plum as compared with its
parent, Agen, as the two varieties grow at Geneva—it should be said at
once that neither grows nearly as well in New York as in California. The
fruits of Sugar on the Station grounds are not larger than those of the
Agen, while in California it is said to be twice or three times as large;
the flavor is not as pleasant and the flesh is fibrous in the offspring
and not so in the parent at Geneva, though in California the Sugar is
said to be of better quality than the Agen. As the two grow here, Sugar
is rather more attractive in appearance and ripens earlier, the latter
character a distinct advantage since Agen is very late in New York. The
trees of the two plums are much alike though those of Agen are larger
and more productive than those of Sugar as grown in New York. There are,
however, but two trees of the latter variety on the Station grounds and
these are young, set in 1899, so that too much importance must not be
attached to the comparison of the trees. Sugar is worth further trial in
New York under other conditions of soil and climate but it is extremely
doubtful whether it will surpass the Agen in this State.

This plum, a seedling of the well-known Agen, was introduced by its
originator, Burbank, in 1899. The California Experiment Station in
analyzing this plum found it to be richer in sugar than the Agen and
states that it is larger and more easily dried. Sugar has become of great
commercial importance in the California prune districts and has been
top-grafted on other plums and even on almonds to the extent of hundreds
of acres in that State and in Oregon. As yet it is only under trial in
New York.

    Tree of medium size, usually vigorous, spreading, dense-topped,
    hardy, productive; branches ash-gray, tinged red, smooth except
    for the numerous, small, raised lenticels; branchlets slender,
    with long internodes, green changing to brownish-red, dull,
    sparingly pubescent throughout the season, with numerous,
    inconspicuous, small lenticels; leaf-buds large, long, somewhat
    pointed, strongly appressed.

    Leaves folded backward, obovate or oval, two and one-half
    inches wide, five inches long; upper surface dark green,
    rugose, covered with numerous hairs, the midrib narrowly
    grooved; lower surface pale green, overspread with thick
    pubescence; apex abruptly pointed or acute, base acute,
    margin serrate, with small dark glands; petiole nearly one
    inch long, covered with thick pubescence, lightly tinged with
    red, glandless or with from one to three small, globose,
    greenish-yellow glands at the base of the leaf.

    Flowers large, intermediate in time of bloom; calyx-tube green;
    stamens longer than the pistil.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season;
    small, ovate or oval, halves equal; cavity shallow, narrow,
    abrupt; suture shallow, often a line; apex roundish or
    pointed; color dark reddish-purple changing to purplish-black,
    covered with thick bloom; dots numerous, small, light russet,
    inconspicuous; stem slender, long, pubescent, adhering; skin
    thin, tender, separating readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy,
    coarse, fibrous, tender, sweet, mild; good to very good; stone
    light colored, with a tinge of red, thin, of medium size,
    ovate, flattened, with rough and pitted surfaces, blunt at
    the base, acute at the apex; ventral suture rather narrow,
    distinctly furrowed, slightly winged; dorsal suture with a
    wide, deep groove.


SURPRISE

[Illustration: SURPRISE]

_Prunus hortulana mineri?_

    =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:61 fig. 30. 1897. =2.= _Ia. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 112. 1899. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1899. =4.=
    _Wis. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 69. 1900. =5.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:289.
    1900. =6.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:18. 1901. =7.= Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 175. 1901. =8.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 228. 1904. =9.=
    _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 426. 1905. =10.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._
    =93=:39. 1905.

Surprise is one of the best of the native plums in the Station orchard.
The fruits are very attractive in appearance and while not of the
rich flavor of the Domesticas they are yet of pleasant flavor with an
abundance of juice which together make this a most refreshing fruit.
The fruits keep well and would probably ship well. The color is a
peculiar red which serves to identify the variety; on the whole the
fruits resemble the Americanas while the trees are rather more of the
Miner type. The variety is productive in New York and is so spoken of in
Wisconsin by Goff,[224] but in Iowa it is said not to bear abundantly.
If a native plum is wanted in New York, this variety is worthy a trial.

Surprise, according to the originator, Martin Penning of Sleepy Eye,
Brown County, Minnesota, is the best of a thousand or more seedlings
grown from pits of De Soto, Weaver and Miner sown in 1882. In 1889,
Penning introduced this plum and ten years later it was added to the
fruit catalog list of the American Pomological Society. The parentage of
the variety is unknown but it has usually been thought that the botanical
characters indicate that it is a seedling of Miner. As the tree grows
here, (they came to the Station from Mr. Penning,) it appears to be a
hybrid of _Prunus americana_ and _Prunus hortulana mineri_, characters of
both species being evident.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright, dense-topped, hardy, productive;
    trunk roughish; branches smooth, zigzag, thorny, dark
    ash-gray, with numerous, small lenticels; branchlets slender,
    medium to long, with long internodes, green changing to dark
    chestnut-red, with brownish-gray scarf-skin, glossy, glabrous,
    with numerous, conspicuous, small, raised lenticels; leaf-buds
    small, short, obtuse, plump, appressed.

    Leaves falling early, folded upward, oval or ovate, two inches
    wide, four and one-half inches long, thin; upper surface
    light green, glabrous, smooth, with a grooved midrib; lower
    surface pale green, lightly pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base
    abrupt, margin often coarsely and doubly serrate, with amber
    glands which are not persistent; petiole thirteen-sixteenths
    inch long, slender, reddish, sparingly pubescent along one
    side, glandless or with from one to five small, globose,
    yellowish-brown glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing with the leaves, three-quarters inch across,
    creamy-white, with a disagreeable odor; borne in clusters from
    lateral buds, in threes or in fours; pedicels three-eighths
    inch long, slender, glabrous, green; calyx-tube greenish,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, acute, pubescent
    on the inner surface, serrate and with reddish glands, erect;
    petals roundish-ovate, entire, narrowly clawed; anthers
    yellowish; filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil glabrous,
    equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and three-eighths
    inches by one and one-eighth inches in size, halves equal;
    cavity shallow, flaring; suture very shallow, distinct; apex
    roundish or depressed; color dark red, covered with thin bloom;
    dots numerous, medium to large, russet, conspicuous, clustered
    about the apex; stem one-half inch long, glabrous, adhering to
    the fruit; skin thick, tough, clinging; flesh golden-yellow,
    juicy, fibrous, somewhat tender, sweet, insipid; quality fair;
    stone clinging, one inch by five-eighths inch in size, oval,
    flattened, pointed at the base and apex, with smooth surfaces.


TENNANT

[Illustration: TENNANT]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 133. 1893. =2.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._
    =45=:32. 1897. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 40. 1899. =4.= _Can.
    Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:57. 1900. =5.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    124. 1901. =6.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 326. 1903.

    Tennant Prune 1. Tenant Prune 4.

It is surprising that a variety of so much merit, especially of so
great beauty, as Tennant, should not have been more widely tried in New
York. In the survey of plum culture in this State in the preparation of
the text for _The Plums of New York_, it could not be learned that the
Tennant had been tried in more than four or five places. In size and
beauty of form and coloring, all well shown in the illustration, Tennant
has few superiors in the collection of plums growing at this Station.
While it is not sufficiently high in quality to be called a first-rate
dessert fruit it is more palatable than most of the purple plums. It
ripens at a good time of the year, several days before the Italian Prune,
and should, from the nature of its skin and the firmness of its flesh,
both ship and keep well. A fault of the fruit as it grows here, a fault
not ascribed to it elsewhere, is that it shrivels soon after ripening.
Our trees are large, vigorous, healthy, hardy and productive—almost ideal
plum-trees. This variety should be very generally tried in commercial
plantations in New York and may well be planted in home collections for a
culinary fruit at least. On the Pacific Coast it is cured for prunes, its
meaty flesh fitting it very well for this purpose.

This is another promising plum from the Pacific Northwest. Tennant
originated with Rev. John Tennant of Ferndale, Washington, and was
introduced in 1893 by McGill and McDonald, Salem, Oregon. The variety is
fairly well known in the region of its origin but is practically unknown
in New York. It was listed in the American Pomological Society catalog in
1897 as successful in the Pacific Northwest.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, open, hardy, productive;
    trunk slightly roughened; branches stocky, smooth, with
    lenticels of medium number and size; branchlets thick, long,
    with long internodes, greenish-red changing to brownish-drab,
    with green patches and considerable scarf-skin, somewhat
    glossy, sparingly pubescent throughout the season, with
    small lenticels; leaf-buds large, long, pointed, appressed;
    leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves folded backward, oval or obovate, one and three-quarters
    inches wide, three and one-half inches long, thick, stiff;
    upper surface dark green, rugose, sparingly hairy, with a
    grooved midrib; lower surface silvery-green, with thick
    pubescence; apex abruptly pointed to acute, base acute, margin
    crenate, eglandular or with small, brown glands; petiole
    five-eighths inch long, thick, tinged red along one side,
    hairy, glandless or with one or two rather large, globose,
    brownish glands variable in position.

    Blooming season early to medium, short; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, one inch or more across, white, the buds tinged
    yellow; borne on lateral spurs; pedicels one-half inch long,
    thick, pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, often with a
    swelling around the base, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes
    broad, obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces, with thick, marginal
    hairs, erect; petals roundish-oval, entire, tapering to short,
    broad claws; anthers large, yellow; filaments five-sixteenths
    inch long; pistil pubescent at the base, equal to the stamens
    in length; stigma large.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season; one
    and three-quarters inches by one and five-eighths inches in
    size, roundish-truncate or roundish-oblong, with irregular
    surface which is somewhat ridged, halves equal; cavity narrow,
    abrupt, slightly compressed; suture variable in depth,
    distinct; apex deeply depressed; color dark reddish-purple,
    overspread with thick bloom; dots numerous, variable in size,
    whitish, conspicuous, clustered about the apex; stem thick,
    three-eighths inch long, pubescent, adhering well to the
    fruit; skin tough, adhering slightly to the pulp; flesh dark
    golden-yellow, somewhat dry, coarse, tough, firm, sweet, mild
    but pleasant; of good quality; stone clinging, seven-eighths
    inch by five-eighths inch in size, irregular-oval, flattened,
    obliquely necked, blunt at the apex, with deeply pitted
    surfaces, roughish; ventral suture prominent, heavily furrowed,
    not winged; dorsal suture usually with a narrow, shallow groove.


TRAGEDY

[Illustration: TRAGEDY]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 236, Pl. II fig. 5, 237. 1890. =2.=
    _Ibid._ 109 fig. 8. 1891. =3.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 358. 1891.
    =4.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =27=:125. 1898. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 40. 1899. =6.= Waugh _Plum. Cult._ 124. 1901.

    Tragedy Prune 1, 3, 4.

Tragedy is another western plum which, like the Tennant, has not been
well tested in the East. It is an older plum than the Tennant and
somewhat better known in New York but still the reports of it are not
sufficient in number or of great enough range to enable a fair opinion
to be given as to its merits. As the variety grows at Geneva the fruits
are very attractive in appearance—above medium size, a dark, rich
purple color, and having the full, rounded form much liked by consumers
in a dessert plum. The flesh is juicy, tender and sweet so that the
quality may be called good; possibly the flesh is a little too soft for
long shipping or long keeping as it grows here, though in one of the
California references it is spoken of as “valuable for eastern shipment.”
The trees are very satisfactory except that in New York they are not
quite as reliable in bearing as could be wished. A fault, as the variety
grows here and which may be local, is that a large proportion of the pits
are cracked and all are soft and granular. The tree is reported by some
as “scale proof” but unfortunately this statement can neither be denied
nor affirmed. A plum with the good qualities possessed by Tragedy, should
be better known in New York.

The following history is contributed by Professor E. J. Wickson,
Berkeley, California. Tragedy originated as a chance seedling on the
farm of O. R. Runyon, near Courtland, Sacramento County, California,
probably in the late seventies. It was first offered to the trade in
dormant buds by W. R. Strong and Company of Sacramento in 1887. Since
the German Prune and Duane Purple grew on the place of its origin and as
it shows characters of both, it has been noted as a probable cross of
these varieties. The name Tragedy is understood to have been given to
the fruit by Mr. Runyon because the plum was noted to be desirable on or
about a day upon which a certain event held to be tragical occurred in
the neighborhood. In 1899, the American Pomological Society considered
Tragedy worthy a place in its list of fruits.

    Tree large, vigorous, round-topped, hardy, variable in
    productiveness; branches ash-gray, usually smooth, with raised
    lenticels of various sizes; branchlets twiggy, thick, medium
    to short, with short internodes, greenish-red changing to dark
    brownish-drab, covered with thick pubescence, with obscure,
    small lenticels; leaf-buds intermediate in size and length,
    obtuse, plump, appressed.

    Leaves folded backward, oval or obovate, one and three-quarters
    inches wide, three and three-quarters inches long; upper
    surface dark green, glabrous except for the few hairs on the
    deeply and narrowly grooved midrib; lower surface pubescent;
    apex acute or obtuse, base acute; petiole five-eighths inch
    long, thick, pubescent, faintly tinged red, glandless or with
    one or two small, globose, greenish-brown glands usually at the
    base of the leaf.

    Blooming season early, short; flowers appearing with the
    leaves, seven-eighths inch across, white; borne on lateral
    buds, usually in pairs; pedicels one-half inch long, thick,
    pubescent, greenish; calyx-tube green, with roughened surface,
    campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes acute, lightly pubescent,
    serrate, with many glands and marginal hairs, reflexed; petals
    broadly oval, crenate, short-clawed; anthers bright yellow;
    filaments nearly five-sixteenths inch long; pistil pubescent at
    the base, much longer than the stamens.

    Fruit early, season short; one and five-eighths inches by
    one and three-eighths inches in size, oval, swollen on the
    suture side, compressed, halves unequal; cavity narrow,
    abrupt, regular; suture shallow, often an indistinct line;
    apex roundish; color dark purplish-black, covered with thick
    bloom; dots numerous, variable in size, russet, inconspicuous;
    stem five-eighths inch long, pubescent, adhering well to the
    fruit; skin of medium thickness and toughness, somewhat sour,
    separating readily; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, tender,
    sweet, mild; good; stone clinging, one inch by five-eighths
    inch in size, irregular-oval, flattened, obliquely necked;
    apex acute; surfaces pitted, roughish; ventral suture narrow,
    prominent, not winged; dorsal suture narrowly and deeply
    grooved.


TRANSPARENT

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 395. 1857. =2.= _Flor. & Pom._
    56, Col. Pl. fig. 1862. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 383. 1866. =4.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 950. 1869. =5.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S.
    =17=:258. 1869. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 91. 1869. =7.= _Am.
    Pom. Soc. Cat._ 24. 1871. =8.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 25. 1871.
    =9.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:31, fig. 16. 1873. =10.= _Cat. Cong.
    Pom. France_ 365. 1887. =11.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889.
    =12.= _Guide Prat._ 154, 364. 1895. =13.= Nicholson _Dict.
    Gard._ =3=:166. =14.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 124. 1901. =15.= _Soc.
    Nat. Hort. France Pom._ 554 fig. 1904.

    _Diaphane_ 4, 12. _Diaphane Lafay_ 4. _Durchscheinende
    Reineclaude_ 9, 12. Durchscheinende Reine-Claude 11. _Prune
    Diaphane_ 9. _Prune Diaphane Laffay_ 4, 11. _Reine-Claude
    De Guigne_ 9. Reine-Claude Diaphane 1, 8, 9, 10, 12, 15.
    _Reine-Claude Diaphane_ 2, 3, 4, 5, 11. _Reine-Claude
    Transparente_ 9, 11, 12, 15. _Reine-Claude Transparent_ 4.
    Transparent Green Gage 6. Transparent Gage 3, 4, 7, 8, 13.
    _Transparent Gage_ 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15. Transparent Gage
    Plum 2, 5.

In Europe Transparent is considered one of the best of all dessert plums
but either it does not do as well in America or the American bred plums
of the Reine Claude group, to which this variety belongs, are much better
on this continent than in the Old World. At any rate in our soil and
climate there are a dozen or more Reine Claude plums as good or better
in quality than Transparent and much superior in other characters. It
is, however, worth planting by the connoisseur for its quality and
because of the transparency of skin—in the latter respect it is unique
among Domestica plums. The flower-buds of this variety have a remarkable
tendency to produce leaves in the place of floral organs.

Transparent is an old French variety. M. Lafay, a rose-grower at
Bellevue, near Paris, raised it from the seed of the Reine Claude and
named it Reine Claude Diaphane. It was grown previous to 1836, for,
during this year, Thomas Rivers of England, while visiting M. Lafay, was
told of its origin. In 1871, the American Pomological Society listed
Transparent in its catalog as worthy of culture. The color of this
variety leads to the suspicion that Reine Claude is not the only parent.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open-topped, hardy,
    productive; branches slender, ash-gray, roughish towards
    the trunk, with small lenticels; branchlets above medium in
    thickness, short, with internodes of average length, green
    changing to brownish-red often retaining some green, dull,
    pubescent, with small lenticels; leaf-buds of medium size and
    length, conical, somewhat appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, obovate or oval, two and one-half inches
    wide, five inches long, above average thickness; upper surface
    rugose, nearly glabrous, with a grooved midrib; lower surface
    pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or acute, base acute, margin
    often doubly serrate or crenate, with small, dark glands;
    petiole seven-eighths inch long, thick, pubescent, faintly
    tinged red, glandless or with from one to four rather large,
    globose or oval, greenish-brown glands usually on the stalk.

    Season of bloom medium, short; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, one and one-eighth inches across, white; borne in
    scattering clusters on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in
    pairs; pedicels five-eighths inch long, thick, pubescent,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes
    obtuse, lightly pubescent, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals
    obovate, crenate, tapering to short, broad claws; anthers
    yellow with a tinge of red; filaments three-eighths inch long;
    pistil glabrous, shorter than the stamens, often in pairs.

    Fruit late, intermediate in length of ripening season; one
    and three-eighths inches by one and one-half inches in size,
    oblate, compressed; halves equal; cavity wide, flaring; suture
    a line; apex flattened or depressed; color red over a dark
    amber-yellow ground, mottled, covered with thin bloom; dots
    numerous, grayish or light russet, conspicuous, decreasing in
    number but increasing in size towards the cavity; stem thick,
    three-quarters inch long, pubescent, adhering well to the
    fruit; skin thin, adhering but slightly; flesh golden-yellow,
    juicy, fibrous, tender, very sweet, aromatic, pleasant; very
    good to best; stone clinging, five-eighths inch by one-half
    inch in size, roundish-oval, turgid, blunt at the base and
    apex, with slightly pitted surfaces; ventral suture, wide,
    blunt, faintly grooved; dorsal suture with a deep groove of
    medium width.


UNGARISH

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Ia. Agr. Col. Bul._ 50, 51. 1886. =2.= _Ia. Hort. Soc.
    Rpt._ 86. 1890. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:53. 1895. =4.=
    _Kan. Sta. Bul._ =101=:117, 119, 120 fig. 1901. =5.= Waugh
    _Plum Cult._ 109. 1901. =6.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 102. 1902.
    =7.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 326. 1903. =8.= _Can. Exp.
    Farms Rpt._ 433. 1905.

    Hungarian 3, ?6. _Hungarian Prune_ 3. Hungarian Prune 4.
    Hungary 1. Ungarische 8. Ungarish Prune 2, 7. _Quetsche de
    Hongrie_ 1. _Zwetsche Ungarische_ 1.

Budd’s Ungarish as grown at the New York State Experiment Station is
nearly identical with the Italian Prune. The only differences to be
detected are that the Italian Prune is a trifle smaller, a little more
firm, not as broad and not quite as sweet as the Ungarish. The pit of the
latter is usually tinged with red, while that of the former is rarely
so colored. If the Ungarish prove as productive as the Italian Prune it
may be more desirable because of its larger size. In 1883 Professor J.
L. Budd of the Iowa Experiment Station imported trees under the name
Quetsche de Hongrie or Zwetsche Ungarische from C. H. Wagner of Riga,
Russia and from Wilhelm Wohler of Wilna, Russia. Budd disseminated the
variety as Hungary, a name soon changed to Hungarian Prune and later to
Ungarish. This is not to be confused with the true Hungarian so well
known in Europe as the Quetsche de Hongrie.


UTAH

_Prunus besseyi_ × _Prunus watsoni_

    =1.= Dieck in Dippel _Laubholzkunde_ =3=:634. 1893. =2.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =70=:262, Pl. II fig. 3. 1894. =3.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =32=:490. 1894. =4.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:21. 1898.
    =5.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 225. 1901.

    _Black Utah Hybrid_ 2, 4, 5. Utah Hybrid 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

This interesting natural hybrid was grown by J. E. Johnson at Wood River,
Nebraska, some time previous to 1870. Mr. Johnson planted seed of the
native dwarf cherry which had grown near Sand plums and which supposedly
had been pollinized by the plums. The resulting plants proved to be
intermediates between the cherry and the plum and are now generally
thought to be natural hybrids. From these seedlings, one was selected and
propagated. Shortly afterwards Mr. Johnson moved to Utah taking his new
hybrid with him and from there distributed it as Utah. In 1893 a German
botanist, Dieck (References, 1), described this hybrid and gave it the
specific name _Prunus utahensis_. The plant has no commercial value. It
is described as follows:

    Tree a dwarfish tree-like bush three or four feet in height;
    branches and branchlets zigzag after the habit of _Prunus
    watsoni_: leaves small, narrow-ovate, pointed at the ends;
    margins crenulate, glandless, sometimes small glands on the
    petioles; fruit early, small, round, dark mahogany-red, covered
    with bloom; skin very bitter; flesh melting; pleasant flavor;
    quality poor; stone small, round like that of a cherry.


VICTORIA

[Illustration: VICTORIA]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 315. 1845. =3.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ 45, Pl. 1856. =4.=
    Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 516. 1859. =5.= _Cultivator_ =8=:26 fig.
    1860. =6.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 88. 1862. =7.= Thomas _Am.
    Fruit Cult._ 349 fig. 379. 1867. =8.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
    948. 1869. =9.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 13. 1871. =10.= _Mas Le
    Verger_ =6=:23, fig. 12. 1866-73. =11.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst.
    Sort._ 419. 1881. =12.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 728. 1884. =13.=
    Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 438. 1889. =14.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._
    No. 98 fig. 1894. =15.= _Guide Prat._ 159, 367. 1895. =16.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul_. =131=:193. 1897. =17.= _Jour. Roy._ _Hort.
    Soc._ =21=:222. 1897. =18.= _Mich. Sta._ _Bul_. =169=:243, 248.
    1899. 19. _Garden_ =57=:267. 1900. =20.= _Waugh Plum Cult._
    122, 123 fig. 1901.

    _Alderton_ 4, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15. _Dauphin_ 8, 13.
    _Denyer’s Victoria_ ?2, 3, 6, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15. Denyer’s
    Victoria 4. _Dolphin_ 8, 13. _Imperial de Sharp_ 8, 13.
    Königin Victoria 11, 13, 15. _Königin Victoria_ 9, 14, 15. La
    Victorine 1. Prune Reine Victoria 3. _Queen Victoria_ ?2, 3,
    13, 14, 15. Queen Victoria 9. _Reine Victoria_ 9, 10, 13, 14,
    of some 15. _Royal Dauphine_ 8, 13. Sharp 20. Sharp’s Emperor
    2, 8. _Sharp’s Emperor_ 3, 9, 10, 12, 13, by error 15, 20.
    _Sharpe’s Emperor_, 17 incor. Victoria-Pflaume 14. _Sharp’s
    Kaiserpflaume_ 13. _Victoria_ 8, 9, 13, 14, 20. _Victoria’s
    Kaiserzwetsche_ 14, 15.

For some reason Victoria, long known in America, has never attained
great popularity in this country. It is a large plum attaining nearly
the size of Pond, though the color-plate does not so show it, and has
much the same color as the plum with which we have just compared it.
Here resemblances cease for Victoria is not the same shape as Pond,
is a little better in quality, is earlier and quite different in
tree-characters. It would seem that this would make a good market plum as
it is firm enough in flesh to ship well, as grown here keeps remarkably
well, is better in quality than the average market plum and is handsome,
though Americans seem to care little for red plums, preferring the yellow
sorts and still more the purple kinds. Unfortunately, Victoria does not
always color well in our climate. The trees of this variety at this
Station, while productive, are not large nor robust, and the foliage is
a little too susceptible to fungi. These defects of the tree may account
for the lack of popularity of the variety in New York though even if they
are to be found in all localities, which is probably not the case, this
plum is still worth growing to some extent for home or market.

The origin of this plum and even its right to the name under which it
is discussed here are matters of controversy. The London Horticultural
Society in 1831 mentioned La Victorine in its catalog but since no
description was given it cannot be identified as Victoria. Sharp’s
Emperor which has been confused with this variety, was described in
the same publication. These two varieties were considered as identical
by Charles Downing, Hogg, Mas and others; while Royer[225] who tested
Sharp’s Emperor, obtained from Liegel, thought it to be distinct, as did
Thomas, the _Guide Pratique_ and Pearson of England. Hogg in describing
the Victoria says, “This is a Sussex plum, and was discovered in a
garden at Alderton in that county. It became known as Sharp’s Emperor,
and was ultimately sold by a nurseryman named Denyer, in the year 1844 at
Brixton, near London, at a high price as a new variety under the name of
Denyer’s Victoria.” Pearson in the _Journal of the Royal Horticultural
Society_ for 1897 says the reason that Hogg and other authorities had
called these varieties identical is that they had not seen the true
variety. At this Station we have not seen Sharp’s Emperor but judging
from the descriptions it is distinct though very similar. The American
Pomological Society placed Victoria on its fruit list in 1862 but in
1871, Sharp’s Emperor was substituted as the correct name with Victoria
as a synonym. This change was probably made to comply with Downing’s
nomenclature of 1869. A review of the whole controversy cannot but lead
to the conclusion that Victoria is the correct name and it appears also
to be in most common use.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, hardy,
    productive; branches ash-gray, smooth, with few large
    lenticels; branchlets thick, short, stout, with short
    internodes, greenish changing to dark brownish-drab, dull, with
    thick pubescence, with few inconspicuous, small lenticels;
    leaf-buds large, long, conical or pointed, free.

    Leaves folded backward, obovate, two and three-eighths inches
    wide, five inches long, thick, stiff; upper surface dark green,
    rugose, with a narrow groove on the midrib, sparingly hairy;
    lower surface medium green, thickly pubescent; apex abruptly
    pointed, base cuneate, margin serrate or crenate, eglandular
    or with small dark glands; petiole one inch long, covered with
    thick pubescence, tinged red on one side, glandless or with
    from one to three globose or reniform, yellow glands usually on
    the stalk.

    Season of bloom medium, short; flowers appearing with
    the leaves, one and one-eighth inches across, white, the
    buds tinged yellow; borne in clusters on lateral buds and
    spurs, singly or in pairs; pedicels nearly three-eighths
    inch long, thick, heavily pubescent; calyx-tube green,
    campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes medium to narrow, obtuse,
    glandular-serrate, thickly pubescent on both surfaces,
    reflexed; petals roundish-obovate, entire or occasionally
    notched, tapering to short, broad claws; anthers yellow;
    filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than
    the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period of medium length; one and
    seven-eighths inches by one and one-half inches in size,
    long-oval, oblong, compressed, halves equal; cavity shallow,
    narrow, flaring; suture variable in depth, prominent; apex
    roundish or depressed; color dark red, mottled before full
    maturity, covered with thick bloom; dots numerous, russet,
    conspicuous; stem thick, three-quarters inch long, very
    pubescent, adhering strongly to the fruit; skin thin, tender,
    adhering but slightly; flesh light yellow, juicy, coarse, firm,
    sweet, mild but pleasant; good; stone free, one and one-eighth
    inches by three-eighths inch in size, broad-oval, strongly
    flattened, deeply pitted, roughish, blunt at the base and apex;
    ventral suture narrow, distinctly winged; dorsal suture widely
    and deeply grooved.


VIOLET DIAPER

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 578. 1629. =2.= Langley
    _Pomona_ 93, Pl. XXIII fig. II. 1729. =3.= Duhamel _Trait.
    Arb. Fr._ =2=:101, Pl. XVII fig. 1768. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:70, 92. 1832. =5.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 425. 1854. =6.= Koch
    _Deut. Obst._ 572. 1876. =7.= _Le Bon Jard._ 339. 1882. =8.=
    Hogg _Fruit Man._ 690. 1884. =9.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 452.
    1889. =10.= _Guide Prat._ 157, 355. 1895.

    Black Diapred 1. _Blaue Diaprée_ 9, 10. _Blaue Herzformige
    Pflaume_ 9, 10. _Buntfarbige Violette Pflaume_ 9, 10. _Cheston_
    1, 9, 10. Cheston 4, 5, 8. _Cheston Matchless_ 5. Cheston’s
    Plumb 2. Dennie 1. Diaprée noire 7. _Die Violette Diaprée_ 10.
    Diaprée Violette 3, 10. _Diaprée Violette_ 4, 8, 9. Diapre
    Violet 4. Friars 1. Friars 8. Friar’s Plum 9. Matchless 4, 5,
    9, 10. Purple Diaper 6. _Violet Diaper_ 5, 9. Violette Diaprée
    9. _Violette Violen Pflaume_ 9, 10. _Veilchen Pflaume_ 9, 10.

Violet Diaper was cultivated at the beginning of the Seventeenth Century
and has maintained itself in Europe until the present time although never
attaining nor deserving the popularity of the Red Diaper. Matchless,
cited as a synonym, is manifestly incorrect as the true Matchless is a
yellow plum; but since it has been used so long and by so many writers as
a synonym, it seems best to mention it as such. This plum is not grown in
America. It is described as follows:

    Fruit early; of medium size, oval; suture faint; cavity almost
    lacking; skin free; dark purple, covered with thick bloom;
    flesh yellow, firm, sweet; good; freestone.


VORONESH

[Illustration: VORONESH]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 76. 1883. =2.= _Ibid._ 61. 1887. =3.=
    _Am. Gard._ =11=:625 fig. 1. 1890. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 116.
    1901. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 327, 329. 1903.

    Moldavka 1, 2, 3, 4. Voronesh Yellow 3, 5. Yellow Moldavka 5.
    Yellow Voronesh 2.

Voronesh is a Russian sort supposed to be ironclad as to cold. It is
perfectly hardy at Geneva, the trees are also very productive and the
fruits are attractive enough in size and color to meet market demands but
the flavor is so insipid as to make the plum unfit for dessert and hardly
fit for kitchen use. It is given the honor of a color-plate because it is
a somewhat distinct type. In 1881 Professor J. L. Budd secured from J.
E. Fisher, Voronesh, Russia, a variety which he introduced as Voronesh
Yellow. At the same time he imported a variety from Fisher under the name
Moldavka which proved to be identical with his Voronesh Yellow, though
Budd held that while they were very similar the Moldavka was more oval
than Voronesh.

    Tree of medium size, round-topped, productive; leaves drooping,
    folded backward, narrow-obovate, two and one-quarter inches
    wide, four and one-half inches long, thick; margin doubly
    serrate, with small, yellowish glands; petiole one-half inch
    long, tinged red, pubescent, sometimes with two globose,
    yellowish-red glands usually on the stalk near the base of the
    leaf; blooming season early, short; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, fully one and one-eighth inches across, dull white;
    borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in pairs.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and seven-eighths
    inches by one and one-half inches in size, ovate, necked,
    slightly enlarged on the suture side, dark lemon-yellow,
    with thin bloom; dots very numerous, of medium size, white,
    conspicuous; stem adhering strongly to the fruit; skin tough,
    sour; flesh dark amber-yellow, very tender, sweet, mild; poor;
    stone free, one and three-eighths inches by five-eighths inch
    in size, long-oval, flattened, somewhat necked, acute at the
    apex, the surfaces smooth or partially honeycombed; ventral
    suture prominent.


WALES

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =5=:837. 1845. =2.= _Mag. Hort._ =12=:340.
    1846. =3.= McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ 529. 1855. =4.= Downing _Fr.
    Trees Am._ 392. 1857. =5.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 515. 1859.
    =6.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ 7, Pl. 1859. =7.= Mas _Pom. Gen._
    =2=:119, fig. 60. 1873. =8.= _Flor. & Pom._ 253, Pl. 1875. =9.=
    _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =21=:20. 1876. =10.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 718. 1884. =11.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 443. 1889. =12.=
    _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 96, 120. 1896. =13.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =131=:190. 1897. =14.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897.
    =15.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:160. 1899. 16. Waugh _Plum Cult._
    125. 1901.

    Chapman’s Prince of Wales, 3, 5. _Chapman’s Prince of Wales_ 4,
    10, 11. Chapman’s Prince of Wales’ Plum 1. Prince Albert? 11.
    Prince De Galles 7. _Prince De Galles_ 6, 11. Prince of Wales
    2, 4, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15. _Prince of Wales_ 7, 11, 14, 16.
    Prinz Von Wales 11. Prune Prince of Whales 6.

Wales, more commonly known as the Prince of Wales, seems to have much
merit yet it has long been grown in America, probably three-quarters of
a century, without attaining distinction with fruit-growers. In recent
years it has been favorably commented upon in a number of publications
and seems to be better known and more grown than formerly. Whether this
tardily-given recognition is not too late is a question. So many good
plums have been introduced both at home and abroad in the last few
decades that a sort dating back nearly a century must be meritorious,
indeed, to stand the competition. As Wales grows in New York, it is
rather too poor in quality to recommend it for a home variety and the
plums are too small, as they generally grow, for a good commercial fruit.
The trees are enormously productive and are very satisfactory in other
characters as well. In a bulletin from the Cornell Station (References,
13) this variety is said to have “much to commend it for general favor:”
while in Ohio (References, 15) it is thought that Wales “ought to become
popular.”

Wales, a seedling of Orleans, was raised by a Mr. Chapman, Brentford,
Middlesex, England, in 1830. It was exhibited before the London
Horticultural Society in 1845 where it was awarded a prize. The following
year, Hovey, the American pomologist, (References, 2) described the
variety but the date of the first importation to this country is unknown.
It was not until 1897 that the variety was sufficiently known to be
placed on the fruit catalog list of the American Pomological Society.

    Tree large, vigorous, slightly vasiform, open-topped, hardy,
    very productive; branches ash-gray, smooth except for the
    numerous, small, slightly raised lenticels, often marked
    by concentric rings; branchlets of medium thickness and
    length, with long internodes, green changing to brownish-red,
    dull, thinly pubescent, with numerous, inconspicuous, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds large, long, conical or pointed;
    leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves folded upward, roundish-ovate or oval, two and one-half
    inches wide, three and one-half inches long; upper surface
    dark green, somewhat rugose, covered with numerous hairs;
    lower surface pale green, thickly pubescent; apex and base
    abrupt, margin crenate, eglandular or with small dark glands;
    petiole one-half inch long, pubescent, tinged red, glandless or
    with from one to three small, globose, yellowish-brown glands
    usually at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season short; flowers one inch across, white,
    with a yellow tinge; usually borne in pairs; pedicels
    eleven-sixteenths inch long, thick, pubescent, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, campanulate, lightly pubescent toward the
    base; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate and with marginal hairs, erect; petals
    broadly oval, crenate, tapering to short, blunt claws;
    filaments five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous except on
    the ovary, longer than the stamens; stigma large.

    Fruit late, season short; one and five-eighths inches by one
    and one-half inches in size, roundish-oval, halves equal;
    cavity narrow, abrupt; suture a line; apex roundish; color
    reddish-purple, overspread with thick bloom; dots few, large,
    often tinged red, conspicuous; stem thick, one-half inch long,
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin tough, separating
    readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, tender, sweet, mild; good;
    stone semi-free or free, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths
    inch in size, oval, turgid, blunt at the base and apex, with
    slightly pitted surfaces; ventral suture narrow, often acute or
    with a slight wing; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


WANGENHEIM

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= _Cultivator_ =8=:26 fig. 1860. =2.= Mas _Le Verger_
    =6=:157, fig. 79. 1866-73. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ XXIV.
    1871. =4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889. =5.= _Guide Prat._
    159, 367. 1895. =6.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 125. 1901.

    _Die Wangenheim_ 4. _De Wangenheim_ 5. _Prune de Wangenheim_ 4.
    _Prune Wangenheim Hâtive_ 4. _Quetsche Précoce de Wangenheim_
    2, 4, 5. _Von Wangenheim Pflaume_ 2, 4, 5. _Wangenheims
    Frühzwetsche_ 2, 5. Wangenheims Früh Zwetsche 4. _Wangenheim
    Hâtive_ 4.

This variety, very well known and highly esteemed in Germany, has been
grown to some extent in America both on the Pacific and Atlantic Coasts
and in neither region has it proved equal to standard plums. According to
Dittrich, Wangenheim originated at Beinheim, a small place near Gotha,
Saxe-Cobourg, Germany.

    Tree large, vigorous, upright-spreading, productive; trunk
    rough; branches rough, stocky; branchlets nearly glabrous;
    leaves folded upward, slightly rugose; margin finely serrate,
    with small glands; petiole tinged red, pubescent, with from one
    to three small glands usually at the base of the leaf.

    Fruit mid-season; one and one-quarter inches by one and
    one-eighth inches in size, ovate, purplish-red, covered with
    thin bloom, yellowish, rather dry, firm, sweet, mild; of good
    quality; stone very free, three-quarters inch by one-half
    inch in size, irregular-oval, flattened, with faintly pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture distinctly winged; dorsal suture with
    a narrow, shallow groove.


WASHINGTON

[Illustration: WASHINGTON]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 24. 1828. =2.= _Pom. Mag._ =1=:16,
    Pl. 1828. =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 154. 1831. =4.= Prince
    _Pom. Man._ =2=:53. 1832. =5.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
    298, 383, 418. 1846. =6.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 210. 1849. =7.=
    Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 326 fig., 327. 1849. =8.= Hovey _Fr.
    Am._ =1=:87, Col. Pl. 1851. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 54. 1852.
    =10.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 415. 1854. =11.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_
    =4=:23, Pl. 1856. =12.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 520. 1859. =13.=
    Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 951. 1869. =14.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No.
    24. 1871. =15.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:59. 1866-73. =16.= Hogg
    _Fruit Man._ 729. 1884. =17.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889.
    =18.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =103=:32, 33, fig. 1894. =19.= _Cornell
    Sta. Bul._ =131=:193. 1897. =20.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =134=:44.
    1902. =21.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:36. 1903.

    _Anglesio_ 17. _Bolmar_ 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17.
    _Bolmar’s Washington_ 3, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 17. Bolmar’s
    Washington 5. _Bolmer_ 1, 4, 13, 17. _Bolmer’s Washington_
    1, 4, 13. _Bolmore’s Washington_ 4. _Double Imperial Gage_
    1, 4. _Franklin_ 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17.
    _Imperial Gage_ (of Albany) 4. _Irving’s Bolmar_ 10, 13, 16,
    17. _Irving’s Bolmer_ 14. _Jackson_ 11, 13, 14, 17. _Louis
    Philippe_ 14. _Louis Philipp_ 17. _New Washington_ 3, 4, 5,
    8, 10, 11, 13, 14, 17. _Parker’s Mammoth_ 10, 13, 16, 17.
    _Philippe_ 1, 11, 13, 14, 17. Prune Washington Jaune 11.
    _Superior Gage_ 1, 4, 8. _Superior Green Gage_ 4, 8. The
    Washington Plum 2, 8. _Washington_ 5, 8. _Washington Bolmar_ 8.
    _Washington Gage_ 4. _Washington Jaune_ 13, 14, 17. _Washington
    Mammot_ 14, 17. _Washington Yellow_ 17.

Washington holds high rank among the Reine Claude varieties, plums
unsurpassed for dessert purposes. The fruits are large in size for one
of this group; handsome in form and color (in the latter respect the
color-plate does not do the variety justice); abundant in juice yet firm
and meaty enough in flesh to keep and ship well; fine in flavor though
not quite equalling some others of its group in this character. The trees
are large, hardy, vigorous and healthy, remarkable for their broad,
glossy, abundant leaves, bear bountiful crops annually and at a favorable
period of maturity. Washington thus has a combination of characters
which few of its group, with which only it must be compared, possess.
The variety, however, is not without defects; the fruits are subject to
brown-rot, so much so that its value as a commercial variety is greatly
lessened; the quality varies greatly in different locations and even in
different years,—the latter very noticeable on the Station grounds; the
trees are slow in coming in bearing and the crops are small for some
years after fruiting begins. From the above considerations it may be
seen that while this variety is almost always worth planting in a home
collection, the location for it as a commercial fruit needs to be chosen
with some care.

There are two accounts of the origin of this variety. William Prince
gives its history as follows (References, 1): “It has always been
the custom at the establishment of the author, at Flushing, to plant
annually the seeds of the finest fruits, for the purpose of originating
new varieties; and, about the year 1790, his father planted the pits of
twenty-five quarts of the Green Gage plum; these produced trees yielding
fruit of every colour; and the White Gage, Red Gage, and Prince’s Gage,
now so well known, form part of the progeny of those plums; and there
seems strong presumptive evidence to suppose that the Washington Plum was
one of the same collection.” Michael Floy gives a different history of
the Washington (References, 5). He states that he received the variety in
1818 from a Mr. Bolmar of New York who in turn had purchased his trees
from a market woman in 1814. The purchased trees were produced as suckers
from the roots of a Reine Claude tree which had been killed below the
graft by lightning on the Delancey farm, now the Bowery, in New York
City. In 1819, a few of the trees, budded the previous year by Floy, were
sent to England. The American Pomological Society added the Washington to
its fruit catalog list in 1852. Taking in consideration the evidence of
other writers and further facts offered in other accounts by the Princes,
father and son, it seems almost certain that the first history is correct
and that Bolmar’s trees had their origin in the Prince nursery.

    Tree large, vigorous, round and open-topped, hardy, very
    productive; branches dark ash-gray, rough becoming shaggy on
    the trunk, with small lenticels; branchlets below medium in
    thickness and length, with long internodes, green changing
    to brownish-red, thinly pubescent, with small lenticels of
    average number; leaf-buds of medium size and length, pointed,
    free.

    Leaves flattened, oval, two and one-half inches wide, four and
    one-quarter inches long, leathery, somewhat velvety; upper
    surface dark green, lightly pubescent, with a shallow groove
    on the midrib; lower surface medium green, thickly pubescent;
    apex abruptly pointed or acute, base abrupt; margin serrate,
    eglandular; petiole five-eighths inch long, green, pubescent,
    glandless or with one or two smallish, globose, greenish-yellow
    glands at the base of the leaf.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and five-sixteenths inches
    across, white, with yellow near the apex; borne on lateral buds
    and spurs; pedicels three-eighths inch long, thick, covered
    with fine pubescence, greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate,
    pubescent; calyx-lobes broad, obtuse, pubescent on both
    surfaces, glandular-serrate and with marginal hairs, erect;
    petals broad-ovate or oval, crenate, tapering into short, broad
    claws; anthers yellow; filaments three-eighths inch long;
    pistil glabrous, longer than the stamens.

    Fruit intermediate in time and length of ripening season;
    one and three-quarters inches by one and five-eighths inches
    in size, roundish-oval, compressed, halves equal; cavity
    shallow, narrow, flaring; suture shallow; apex roundish;
    color greenish-yellow or light yellow, with green stripes and
    splashes, occasionally with a faint blush on the sunny side,
    covered with thin bloom; dots numerous, white, inconspicuous,
    clustered about the apex; stem one-half inch long, covered
    with thick pubescence, adhering strongly to the fruit; skin
    thin, slightly sour, separating readily; flesh greenish-yellow,
    juicy, firm but tender, sweet, mild, pleasant flavor; good to
    very good; stone free, not filling the cavity, one inch by
    three-quarters inch in size, oval, turgid, roughened, somewhat
    blunt at the base and apex; ventral suture wide, marked by deep
    furrows, with a distinct but short wing; dorsal suture widely
    and deeply grooved.


WAYLAND

[Illustration: WAYLAND]

_Prunus hortulana_

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 573, Pl. 5 fig. 2. 1888. =2.= _Am.
    Gard._ =10=:175 fig., 243. 1889. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =38=:51, 87. 1892. =4.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 62. 1897.
    =5.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =10=:99, 103. 1897. =6.= _Ibid._
    =11=:281, 286 fig. 1898. =7.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 228. 1904.
    =8.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:283. 1904. =9.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
    =162=:258. 1905.

Wayland is of little interest to plum-growers who grow the Domestica
varieties without difficulty but in the South and Middle West it is an
important representative of a valuable species. The trees withstand the
hot, dry weather in the region south of central Iowa and Nebraska rather
better than do those of varieties of other species and its fruits are
borne in such quantities and so late that this and its kindred sorts
become important plums. The fruits are quite too firm of flesh, too
sour and too small to be of value for dessert purposes but they are
most excellent for jellies, marmalades and preserves—any of the uses
to which the Damsons are commonly put. They are, too, best adapted for
long-keeping and shipping of any of the native plums. Except in size, the
plums are hardly surpassed in the characters that make a fruit handsome
among the native plums. The trees are large, robust and hardy in central
New York, usually free from attacks of insects and fungi and, with their
abundant, glossy foliage, are strikingly ornamental. Wayland is of value
for New York, however, when all characters are considered, only in
furnishing variety, in extending the season for native plums and as an
ornamental.

Wayland was found in a plum thicket on the premises of Professor H. B.
Wayland, Cadiz, Kentucky. It was sent by him about 1875 to J. S. Downer
and Sons, Fairview, Todd County, Kentucky, who named and introduced
it. There has been much discussion as to the botanical status of this
variety, various writers having put it in at least three distinct species
and Waugh and Bailey have used it as the type of the Wayland group of
_Prunus hortulana_.

    Tree very large and vigorous, spreading, somewhat drooping,
    flat-topped, open, hardy at Geneva, productive; trunk shaggy;
    branches rough, dark ash-gray, with inconspicuous lenticels,
    medium in number and size; branchlets slender, twiggy, long,
    with internodes of average length, green, changing to light
    chestnut-red, glossy, glabrous, with numerous, conspicuous,
    large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds very small, short, obtuse,
    plump, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, ovate or long-oval, peach-like, one and
    seven-eighths inches across, five inches long, thin; upper
    surface smooth and glossy, with a grooved midrib; lower surface
    sparingly pubescent; apex acuminate, base abrupt, margin
    unevenly serrate, glandular; petiole one inch long, slender,
    pubescent along one side, with a tinge of red, with from one to
    five very small, globose, brownish glands usually on the stalk.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after
    the leaves, thirteen-sixteenths inch across, white, with
    disagreeable odor; borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs,
    in threes, fours or fives; pedicels fifteen-sixteenths inch
    long, very slender, glabrous, green; calyx-tube greenish,
    narrowly campanulate, glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, acute,
    erect, lightly pubescent within, serrate and with dark-colored
    glands; petals ovate or oval, irregularly crenate, tapering
    into long, narrow claws with hairy margins; anthers yellowish;
    filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil glabrous, shorter
    than the stamens.

    Fruit very late, season long; one and one-eighth inches by one
    inch in size, roundish-ovate narrowing somewhat toward the
    stem, conical, slightly compressed, halves equal; cavity medium
    to deep, narrow, abrupt; suture usually very shallow and wide,
    often a distinct line; apex pointed; color dark currant-red,
    with inconspicuous, thin bloom; dots numerous, small to
    medium, conspicuous, densely clustered about the apex; stem
    very slender, five-eighths inch long, glabrous, not adhering
    to the fruit; skin thick, tough, clinging but slightly; flesh
    attractive light yellow; moderately juicy, coarse, fibrous,
    rather tender, mildly sweet next the skin but astringent
    towards the pit; fair to good; stone clinging, five-eighths
    inch by three-eighths inch in size, long-oval, somewhat
    elongated at the base and apex, turgid, with rough and pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture wide, blunt, faintly ridged; dorsal
    suture acute, with a narrow, indistinct groove.


WEAVER

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 267. 1874. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 44. 1883. =3.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 268. 1885. =4.=
    _Minn. Sta. Bul._ =5=:36, 37 fig. 1889. =5.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =38=:45, 86. 1892. =6.= _Can. Hort._ =16=:409, Pl. 1893.
    =7.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =123=:21. 1895. =8.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:24, 62. 1897. =9.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:46. 1898. =10.=
    _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:291. 1900. =11.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 166
    fig. 1901. =12.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 302. 1903. =13.=
    _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:32. 1903. =14.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    =67=:283. 1904. =15.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:41. 1905.

Weaver is an old and well-known Americana, once one of the most popular
of its species because of its hardiness and productiveness. It is
still listed by many nurserymen and is widely distributed throughout
the country but it is now rapidly passing out of cultivation, being
superseded by sorts producing larger and better colored fruits.

This variety was found growing wild on the Cedar River, in Iowa, by a Mr.
Weaver. In 1873, Ennis and Patten, Charles City, Iowa, began its sale to
fruit-growers. The American Pomological Society placed the Weaver on its
fruit catalog list in 1883, dropped it in 1891, and replaced it in 1897.
The following description is partly compiled.

    Tree large, vigorous, well formed, upright-spreading, unusually
    hardy, productive; branches long, slender; branchlets slender,
    long, with short internodes, reddish-brown, glabrous, with
    numerous, conspicuous lenticels of medium size; leaf-buds
    small, conical, of average length.

    Leaves falling late, four and one-half inches long, two and
    one-half inches wide, obovate or oval, firm, thick, leathery;
    upper surface dark green, slightly roughened, glabrous, with
    narrow midrib; lower surface pale green, pubescent on the
    midrib and larger veins; apex acuminate, base somewhat acute,
    margin deeply and coarsely serrate; petiole five-eighths inch
    long, stout, reddish, slightly pubescent along one side,
    usually with two large, globose, reddish-brown glands on the
    stem.

    Flowers large, prominently stalked; calyx-lobes conspicuously
    glandular, lightly pubescent within.

    Fruit mid-season or later; one inch by three-quarters inch in
    size, large for a native, oval or roundish-oblong, compressed,
    halves unequal; cavity medium to shallow, narrow, rather
    abrupt; suture shallow, distinct; apex roundish or depressed;
    color not uniform, yellowish overlaid with purplish-red,
    mottled, covered with thin bloom; dots numerous, small, often
    purplish, inconspicuous; skin thick, very tough, astringent,
    adhering to the pulp; flesh deep yellow, juicy, firm and
    meaty, sweet, mild; fair to good; stone variable in adhesion,
    three-quarters inch by three-eighths inch in size, long and
    narrow, somewhat oval, flattened, obscurely pointed at the base
    and apex, smooth.


WHITE BULLACE

[Illustration: WHITE BULLACE]

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Abercrombie _Gard.
    Ass’t_ 13. 1786. =3.= Forsyth _Fr. Trees Am._ 21. 1803. =4.=
    _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 344. 1831. =5.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:105. 1832. =6.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 300, 383.
    1846. =7.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 385. 1866. =8.= Downing _Fr. Trees
    Am._ 952. 1869. =9.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:160, 161 fig.
    960. 1901. =10.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 481. 1904.

    Bullace 5. _Bullace_ 7. White Bulleis 1.

The origin of this old sort is unknown. It was cultivated more than
three hundred years ago for Parkinson described it as common in his
time. He says of it “The White and the blacke Bulleis are common in most
Countries, being small round, lesser than Damsons, sharper in taste, and
later ripe.” It is probably one of the first of the cultivated plums.
White Bullace is illustrated and described in full in _The Plums of
New York_ chiefly as a means of comparison between the plums of three
centuries ago and those of the present. It has little value now for any
purpose, though the Europeans still grow it rather commonly and from
seeds, cions or suckers as convenience may dictate.

    Tree of medium size and vigor, upright-spreading, dense-topped,
    hardy, unproductive; branches ash-gray, nearly smooth, with
    numerous, small, inconspicuous lenticels; branchlets thick,
    above medium in length, with short internodes, greenish-red
    changing to dark brownish-red, dull, with thick pubescence
    throughout the season, with few, small lenticels; leaf-buds
    small, short, stubby, obtuse, strongly appressed.

    Leaves flattened, obovate, one and five-eighths inches wide,
    two and three-eighths inches long, thick; upper surface dark
    green, rugose, with few hairs along the narrow, grooved midrib;
    lower surface silvery green, pubescent; apex abruptly pointed
    or acute, base acute, margin doubly serrate, eglandular;
    petiole one-half inch long, green, pubescent, glandless or with
    one or two small, globose, greenish-yellow glands variable in
    position.

    Blooming season medium to late, of average length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, three-quarters inch across, white,
    scattered on lateral spurs; usually borne singly; pedicels
    one-quarter inch long, thick, densely covered with short
    hairs, green; calyx-tube reddish-green, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes acute, lightly pubescent on both surfaces,
    glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals obovate, entire, with
    short, broad claws; anthers yellow with red tinge; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, nearly equal to the
    stamens in length.

    Fruit late, ripening season of medium length; about one inch in
    diameter, roundish, compressed, truncate at the base; cavity
    rather deep and wide, abrupt; suture a line; apex flattened or
    depressed; color deep amber-yellow, sometimes with faint pink
    blush on the exposed cheek, overspread with moderately thick
    bloom; dots numerous, white, inconspicuous; stem one-half inch
    long, covered with scant pubescence, adhering strongly to the
    fruit; skin thin, astringent, slightly adhering; flesh deep
    golden-yellow, juicy, coarse, fibrous, firm, sour; poor in
    quality; stone clinging, five-eighths inch by one-half inch
    in size, ovate, turgid, blunt at the base, acute at the apex,
    slightly roughened; ventral suture broad, blunt, shallowly
    furrowed; dorsal suture with a wide, shallow groove.


WHITE DAMSON

_Prunus insititia_

    =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629. =2.= Quintinye _Com.
    Gard._ 67, 69. 1699. =3.= M’Mahon _Am. Gard. Cal._ 588. 1806.
    =4.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 238, fig. 15. 1817. =5.= _Lond.
    Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831. =6.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:88.
    1832. =7.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 287. 1845. =8.= Floy-Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 300. 1846. =9.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._
    334. 1849. =10.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 430. 1854. =11.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Rpt._ 190, 214. 1856. =12.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 385. 1866.
    =13.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 952. 1869. =14.= Waugh _Plum
    Cult._ 131. 1901.

    _Frost Plum_ 6, 13. _Late Cluster_ 6, 13. Late White Damson 6.
    _Late Yellow Damson_ 7, 9, 10, 13. _Shailer’s White Damson_ 7,
    10, 12, 13. Shailer’s White Damson 5. _Small Round Damson_ 5.
    White Damascene 4. _White Damascene_ 6, 7, 10, 13. White Damask
    2. _White Damson_ 6. _White Prune Damson_ 7, 8, 10, 13. _White
    Winter Damson_ 6, 13. White Winter Damson 3. _Winter Damson_ 6.
    _Yellow Damson_ 9.

This old plum, known since the beginning of the Seventeenth Century,
is chiefly of historic interest. Downing thought this a very desirable
addition to our list of plums but nearly all other pomologists who have
seen the fruit of the variety think it of small importance. Unfortunately
it is not in the collection at this Station and can be neither
recommended nor condemned from first hand knowledge. This plum was first
noted in America by M’Mahon in 1806, and fifty years later it was added
to the American Pomological Society list of promising varieties. For
some reason, perhaps for its color, it has never become so well known as
the purple Damsons. Perhaps from the division of _Prunus insititia_ made
in _The Plums of New York_, this variety should be known as a Mirabelle
rather than as a Damson. The following description is a compilation:

    Tree vigorous, very productive; branches long, slender. Fruit
    matures the last of September, season long; small, oval, pale
    yellow sprinkled with reddish-brown dots, covered with thin
    bloom; flesh yellowish, sprightly, pleasant flavored; good to
    very good; stone clinging.


WHITE IMPERATRICE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:33, Tab. 181 fig. 2; =2=:44, Tab.
    197 fig. 2. 1796. =2.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:106. 1768.
    =3.= _Pom. Mag._ =1=:38, Pl. 1828. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:61. 1832. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 285. 1845. =6.=
    Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 300, 383. 1846. =7.= Poiteau
    _Pom. Franc._ =1.= 1846. =8.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 329.
    1849. =9.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 730. 1884. =10.= Mathieu _Nom.
    Pom._ 454. 1889.

    _Die Weisse Kaiserpflaume_ 3, 4, 6, 10 incor. Die Weisse
    Kaiserpflaume 1. Die Weisse Kaiserinnpflaume 1. _Imperatrice
    Blanche_ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10. The White Imperatrice Plum
    3. Prune Imperatrice Blanche 7. _White Imperatrice_ 3, 10.
    _White Empress_ 5, 8, 10. Weisse Kaiserpflaume 10.

Kraft in his _Pomona Austriaca_, 1796, described a Weisse Kaiserpflaume
and a Weisse Kaiserinnpflaume and gave Imperatrice Blanche as a
synonym to both of them. The latter he gave as a variety of the Weisse
Kaiserpflaume but it is probable that they are the same since no other
author noted the distinction, and, in fact, the differences mentioned are
wholly insignificant. According to Downing this variety was little known
in this country in 1845 and it is doubtful if it is now known at all. It
is described as follows:

    Compared with the Saint Catherine, which it resembles, it
    is found to differ in that its stone is free and its flavor
    less high; branches smooth; leaves smaller and less shining;
    fruit matures in September; of medium size, obovate; suture
    indistinct; cavity narrow; skin yellow, spotted with a little
    red; bloom thin; flesh yellow, crisp, juicy, sweet.


WHITE PERDRIGON

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Rea _Flora_ 208. 1676. =2.= Langley _Pomona_ 92, 93, Pl.
    XXIII figs. V & VI. 1729. =3.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ =3.= 1754.
    =4.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:84, Pl. VIII. 1768. =5.=
    Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:41, Tab. 193 fig. 1. 1796. =6.= _Lond.
    Hort. Soc. Cat._ 151. 1831. 7. Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:52, 64.
    1832. =8.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 287. 1845. =9.= Floy-Lindley
    _Guide Orch. Gard._ 298, 301, 383. 1846. =10.= Hogg _Fruit
    Man._ 386. 1866. =11.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 454. 1889.

    _Brignolle_ 11. _Brignole_ 6, 8, 10, 11. Die weisse Duranzen
    pflaume 5. _Diaprée Blanche_ 11. Maître Claude 2, 3, 7, 9.
    Perdrigon blanc 4. _Perdrigon blanc_ 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.
    _Maître Claude_ 8, 10, 11. Weisser Perdrigon 11. _Weisse
    Diaprée_ 11. _Weisses Rebhuhnerei_ 11. _Prune-Pêche_ (of some)
    11. _White Perdrigon_ 11.

White Perdrigon is an old French variety grown extensively in the
vicinity of Brignoles, France where it is used in the manufacture of the
famous Brignoles Prunes. Because of its use for this purpose, it has been
badly confused with a similar variety, the Brignole, which derived its
name from the town of Brignoles, where it was first grown. The variety
is probably not known in America and might be worth introducing. It is
described as follows:

    The White Perdrigon is a mid-season, medium-sized, oval plum,
    tapering slightly towards the base; suture shallow; cavity
    small; stem slender; skin rather tough, pale yellow, with thin
    bloom; dots numerous, small, whitish; flesh greenish-yellow,
    melting, juicy, sweet, aromatic; good; stone small, long-oval,
    free.


WICKSON

[Illustration: WICKSON]

_Prunus triflora_ × _Prunus simonii_

    =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892. =2.= Burbank _Cat._ 21 fig.
    1893. =3.= _Gard. & For._ =7=:420. 1894. =4.= _Cornell Sta.
    Bul._ =106=:63. 1896. =5.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort._ 53. 1897-8.
    =6.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =139=:46 fig. 120. 1897. =7.= _Can.
    Hort._ =21=:30 fig. 1272. 1898. =8.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =12=:229. 1899. =9.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:148, 149 fig.
    38. 1899. =10.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 41. 1899. =11.= _Kan. Sta.
    Bul._ =101=:125. 1901. =12.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =187=:77, 80.
    1901. =13.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 227. 1901. =14.= _U. S. D. A.
    Rpt._ 387. 1901. =15.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:13, Pl. IV, 37.
    1905. =16.= _Md. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 85. 1905. =17.= _Am. Pom.
    Soc. Rpt._ on Plums etc. 65. 1905.

    _Eureka_ 5. Perfection 1, 2. _Perfection_ 4, 14.

It is difficult to estimate the value of Wickson in American pomology.
Probably no plum of recent introduction has been on the one hand so
highly lauded and on the other so condemned as this one. Its remarkable
size, the largest of the Oriental plums if not the largest of all plums;
its handsome color and distinct form; the firm flesh and peculiar flavor,
generally considered pleasant; the narrow upright tree with its long
lanceolate leaves, mark the variety as a new and for some parts of the
country a valuable addition to pomology. The contradictory evidence
as to its desirability arises from the fact that it can be well grown
in comparatively few plum-growing regions, most of these being on the
Pacific Coast and in the South. In New York, the Wickson has small value
other than in private collections. The variety is a little tender in tree
and bud, hardy only in favored parts of this State and not at all where
the peach cannot be grown; it blooms too early to be safe from frost; it
is susceptible to brown-rot; the trees are late in coming in bearing and
are not reliable in fruiting; the fruits ripen unevenly; and the trees
are not of good form for heavy crops. In California, however, the Wickson
is one of the leading Japanese sorts, possibly the leading one, and is
seemingly growing in favor. Starnes, one of the pomological authorities
of the South, in his bulletin on _Japan and Hybrid Plums_, speaks of
Wickson as a “grand plum” and as one of the best for Georgia. It is to be
hoped that from the same cross which produced Wickson or from breeding
this variety with some other, a plum of this type well suited to New York
may sometime be offered the plum-growers of this State.

Wickson is one of the best known of Burbank’s many plums. The variety was
first described in the report of the Secretary of Agriculture in 1892
under the name Perfection and as a seedling of Kelsey crossed by Burbank.
In 1893 and 1894 Burbank offered for sale the control and the stock of
this variety but found no buyers and in 1895 introduced it himself.
The parentage of the variety is in doubt. Burbank considered it a
Kelsey-Burbank cross; the _Pacific Rural Press_ described it as offspring
of Kelsey and Satsuma; Bailey, Waugh and the workers at this Station
believe it to have _Prunus simonii_ characters. The foliage, flowers, the
tree, the fruiting habit, the texture of the flesh, all indicate Simon
as one of its parents. According to the report of the Secretary of the
California State Board of Horticulture shipments of this plum were made
to New York in the season of 1897 under the name of Eureka. In 1899 it
was placed on the fruit catalog list of the American Pomological Society.

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, with narrow, upright head,
    dense-topped, tender to cold, an uncertain bearer; branches
    medium in smoothness, the fruit-spurs numerous, dark ash-gray
    with tinge of brown, with lenticels of medium size; branchlets
    thick and long, with short internodes, greenish-red changing to
    light chocolate-brown, glossy, glabrous; lenticels numerous,
    raised, variable in size; leaf-buds small, short, obtuse, free.

    Leaves folded upward, lanceolate or oblanceolate, one inch
    wide, three inches long, thin; upper surface dark green,
    glossy, glabrous, with a slightly grooved midrib; lower
    surface pale green, glabrous, except along the midrib; apex
    taper-pointed, base cuneate, margin finely serrate, with
    reddish glands; petiole three-eighths inch long, lightly
    pubescent along one side, faintly tinged red, glandless or with
    from one to nine small, reniform, greenish or yellow glands
    variable in position.

    Blooming season early and of medium length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, intermediate in size, white;
    borne in clusters on lateral spurs, in pairs or in threes;
    pedicels of medium length and thickness, glabrous, greenish;
    calyx-tube green, obconic, glabrous; calyx-lobes acute, erect,
    glandular-ciliate; petals oval, entire, short-clawed; anthers
    yellowish; filaments below medium in length; pistil glabrous,
    longer than the stamens.

    Fruit early mid-season, period of ripening long; variable in
    size, the larger fruits about two and one-eighth inches in
    diameter, obliquely cordate, halves unequal; cavity deep,
    abrupt, with yellowish concentric rings; suture often prominent
    and deep, with a prolonged tip at the apex; color dark red over
    a yellow ground, indistinctly splashed with darker red, mottled
    with thin bloom; dots numerous, small, yellow, inconspicuous,
    densely clustered about the apex; stem thick, eleven-sixteenths
    inch long, glabrous; skin thin, tender, separating easily;
    flesh amber-yellow, juicy, coarse, somewhat fibrous, firm,
    sweet, pleasant but not high in flavor; good; stone clinging,
    one inch by five-eighths inch in size, oval or ovate, pointed,
    with pitted surfaces; ventral suture winged; dorsal suture
    grooved.


WILD GOOSE

[Illustration: WILD GOOSE]

_Prunus munsoniana_

    =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =9=:105. 1867. =2.= _Am. Jour. Hort._
    =5=:147. 1869. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 60. 1869. =4.= _Am.
    Hort. An._ 78. 1870. =5.= _Country Gent._ =35=:166. 1870. =6.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 116. 1871. =7.= _Ibid._ 44. 1875. =8.=
    _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 152,
    153, 154. 1883. =10.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 454. 1889. =11.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:51, fig. 3, 86. 1892. =12.= _Tex.
    Sta. Bul._ =32=:482, fig. 4. 1894. =13.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
    =10=:99, 104. 1897. =14.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 63 fig. 31.
    1897. =15.= _Ala. Col. Sta. Bul._ =112=:178. 1900. =16.= Waugh
    _Plum Cult._ 189, 190. 1901. =17.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:284.
    1904. =18.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:42. 1905. =19.= _Ohio Sta.
    Bul._ =162=:258. 1905.

    _Nolen Plum_ 10. _Suwanee_ 9. Suwanee ?16.

Wild Goose is the first of the native plums to be generally grown as a
distinct variety though Miner was first known and named. Wild Goose, too,
is probably a parent of more sorts than any other variety of the several
cultivated native species, most of its offspring so strongly resembling
it that its name has been given to a group of its closely related sorts.
In spite of the great number of native plums that have been introduced in
recent years, Wild Goose is still a favorite—probably more trees of it
are now cultivated than of any other native plum. Its good qualities are:
bright attractive color; tender and melting flesh with a sprightly and
refreshing flavor; a tough skin which fits the variety well for shipment
and long-keeping; comparative freedom from brown-rot and curculio and
a large, hardy, healthy and, when cross-pollinated, a very productive
tree. Wild Goose has been more extensively planted in New York than any
other plum of its kind and in a few cases has proved a fairly profitable
commercial sort. It is doubtful if it is now the best of its species for
this State but it can at least be recommended for home plantings and in
some localities as a market plum. Wherever planted there should be some
other native sort blooming at the same time for cross-pollination.

The following account of the origin of this variety, more romantic than
credible, is told with several variations. About 1820, M. E. McCance,
who lived near Nashville, Tennessee, shot a wild goose on his farm;
his wife, in dressing the goose, found a plum seed in the craw, which,
planted in the garden, produced the Wild Goose tree. The merits of
the new fruit seem to have been discovered by J. S. Downer, Fairview,
Kentucky, and James Harvey of Columbia, Tennessee. The former propagated,
named and began the dissemination of Wild Goose to fruit-growers. Many
varieties have been sent out for this plum and much confusion has arisen
as to what the true variety is. Since the characters of Wild Goose,
even when cross-pollinated, are transmitted to its offspring to a
remarkable degree, the name now applies to a class of plums rather than
to a variety. The American Pomological Society placed this variety on
the fruit catalog list of the Society in 1875, dropped it in 1891, and
replaced it in 1897.

    Tree very large and vigorous, wide-spreading, flat-topped,
    hardy in New York, productive; branches rough and shaggy, dark
    ash-gray, with numerous, large, elongated lenticels; branchlets
    slender, long, with internodes of medium length, greenish-red
    changing to dull reddish-brown, glossy, glabrous, with many,
    conspicuous, large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds small, short,
    obtuse, free.

    Leaves folded upward, lanceolate, peach-like, four and
    one-quarter inches long, one and one-half inches wide, thin;
    upper surface light or dark green changing to reddish late in
    the season, smooth, glabrous, with a grooved midrib; lower
    surface pale green, glabrous except along the midrib and larger
    veins; apex taper-pointed, base abrupt, margin finely serrate,
    with small, reddish-black glands; petiole five-eighths inch
    long, slender, pubescent along one side, tinged red, glandless
    or with from one to six globose, yellow or reddish-brown glands
    on the stalk and base of the leaf.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, three-quarters inch across, white, with disagreeable
    odor; borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs, in threes
    or fours; pedicels five-eighths inch long, slender, glabrous,
    green; calyx-tube greenish, narrowly campanulate; calyx-lobes
    narrow, glabrous on the outer surface, lightly pubescent
    within, entire, heavily pubescent and with reddish glands on
    the margin, erect; petals ovate, entire, long and narrowly
    clawed; anthers yellow, with a tinge of red; filaments
    five-sixteenths inch long; pistil glabrous, equal to the
    stamens in length.

    Fruit very early, season of medium length; one and
    three-eighths inches by one and three-sixteenths inches in
    size, oval, halves equal; cavity small, narrow, shallow, rather
    abrupt; suture an indistinct line; apex roundish or pointed;
    color bright red, with thin bloom; dots few in number, light
    russet, somewhat conspicuous, clustered about the apex; the
    stem attached to a stem-like growth from the fruit-spurs gives
    the appearance on the tree of a jointed stem, very slender,
    three-quarters inch long, glabrous, not adhering well to the
    fruit; skin tough, slightly astringent, separating readily;
    flesh yellowish, very juicy and fibrous, tender and melting,
    sweet next the skin but sour at the center, sprightly; fair
    to good; stone adhering, seven-eighths inch by three-eighths
    inch in size, long and narrow-oval, flattened, slightly necked
    at the base, acute at the apex, roughened; ventral suture
    wide, blunt, ridged; dorsal suture acute or with a shallow,
    indistinct groove.


WILLARD

_Prunus triflora_

    =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 81. 1893. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =62=:31. 1894. =3.= _Ibid._ =106=:64. 1896. =4.= _Ibid._
    =131=:194. 1897. =5.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26. 1897. =6.=
    _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =177=:42, 43. 1899. =7.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
    =175=:134 fig. 27. 1899. =8.= _Rural N. Y._ =57=:515, 530, 595.
    1898. =9.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 140. 1901. =10.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
    =68=:33. 1905. =11.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 420. 1905.

    _Botan No. 26_ 2, 3, 9. _Botan_ 1. Botan No. 26 1. _Willard
    Plum_ 1. Willard Japan 8.

Willard is about the earliest of the Triflora plums that can be shipped
to the markets. When this is said all is said; as the variety has little
else to recommend it, being very inferior in quality and having a
reputation of being subject to shot-hole fungus. S. D. Willard, Geneva,
New York, procured cions of this variety from California about 1888
from an importation made by Burbank from Japan. According to Willard,
the plum was received under the name Botan and he labelled it No. 26
to avoid confusion; in 1893, it was named Willard by W. F. Heikes of
the Huntsville Nurseries, Huntsville, Alabama. The American Pomological
Society placed the variety on its fruit catalog list in 1897.

    Tree medium to large, vigorous, vasiform, productive;
    leaves falling early, folded upward, oblanceolate, one and
    three-eighths inches wide, three and three-quarters inches
    long, thin, glabrous; margin finely and doubly serrate, with
    very small glands; petiole three-quarters inch long, with from
    one to five reniform glands usually on the stalk.

    Fruit early, of medium size, roundish or somewhat oblong, blunt
    at the apex, dark red when well grown, covered with thick
    bloom; stem short, thick, adhering poorly to the fruit; skin
    sour; flesh greenish-yellow, rather firm, sweet, low in flavor;
    poor in quality; stone variable in adhesion, of medium size.


WOLF

[Illustration: WOLF]

_Prunus americana mollis_

    =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 367. 1883. =2.= _Rural N. Y._
    =44=:645. 1885. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 40. 1889. =4.=
    _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:45 fig. 2, 87. 1892. =5.= _Mich. Sta.
    Bul._ =118=:54. 1895. =6.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 64. 1897.
    =7.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:47. 1898. =8.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
    167. 1901. =9.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:284 fig. 1904. =10.= _S.
    Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:42. 1905. =11.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =114=:148
    fig. 1910.

    _Wolf Free_ 4, 6. _Wolf Freestone_ 11.

Wolf has long maintained a high place among the standard Americana plums,
with which it is usually classed though put in a sub-species, and from
which it differs chiefly in having much more pubescence on foliage,
floral organs and branchlets. It is noted for its great hardiness,
reliability in bearing, attractive and well-flavored fruits and in being
one of the few freestones of its kind. This plum is remarkably well
adapted for the northern part of the Mississippi Valley and there alone
it is worth planting extensively. In New York it might prove valuable in
the coldest parts of the State where the Domesticas and Insititias cannot
be grown.

This variety was raised from a pit of a wild plum planted on the farm of
D. B. Wolf, Wapello County, Iowa, about 1852. Professor J. L. Budd of
the Iowa Agricultural College stated in 1885 that for over a quarter of
a century the original tree had not failed to produce a partial or large
crop annually on the grounds of the originator. A spurious clingstone
type of the Wolf has been propagated in some nurseries but this false
plum is readily distinguished from the true freestone type. The variety
was added to the American Pomological Society fruit catalog list in 1889,
dropped in 1891, and replaced in 1897.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, low, and open-topped, hardy,
    productive, healthy; branches rough and shaggy, thorny, dark
    ash-gray, with numerous, small lenticels; branchlets somewhat
    slender, short, twiggy, with internodes below medium in length,
    green changing to dull brownish-drab, overspread with thick
    pubescence, with numerous, small lenticels; leaf-buds very
    small, short, conical, strongly appressed.

    Leaves falling early, oval, one and seven-eighths inches wide,
    three and seven-eighths inches long, thin; upper surface medium
    green, lightly pubescent, with a narrow groove on the midrib;
    lower surface silvery-green, pubescent; apex taper-pointed,
    margin coarsely and doubly serrate, eglandular; petiole
    one-half inch long, velvety, tinged red, glandless or with one
    or two small, globose, yellowish glands on the stalk or base of
    the leaf.

    Blooming season of average length, late; flowers opening after
    the leaves, one inch across, the buds tinged yellow changing to
    white as the flowers expand; borne on lateral buds and spurs;
    pedicels nine-sixteenths inch long, thickly pubescent, green;
    calyx-tube greenish-red, campanulate, covered with short,
    fine pubescence; calyx-lobes narrow, acute, heavily pubescent
    on both surfaces, with few marginal glands, reflexed; petals
    inclined to curl, long-oval, fringed, long and narrowly clawed;
    anthers yellowish; filaments three-eighths inch long; pistil
    sparingly hairy on the ovary, equal to or shorter than the
    stamens, frequently defective.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; less than one inch in
    diameter, roundish-oval or somewhat obovate, compressed, halves
    equal; cavity frequently yellowish, shallow, narrow, abrupt;
    suture an indistinct line; apex roundish or flattened; color
    dull crimson, thickly mottled, overspread with thick bloom;
    dots numerous, small, russet, inconspicuous; stem slender,
    glabrous, adhering poorly to the fruit; skin thick, tough,
    slightly roughened, astringent, adhering; flesh golden-yellow,
    very juicy, fibrous, tender and melting, sweet next the skin,
    but astringent toward the center; fair to good; stone semi-free
    to free, five-eighths inch by three-eighths inch in size,
    roundish-obovate, tapering at the base, blunt at the apex, with
    smooth surfaces; ventral suture winged; dorsal suture acute, or
    with a faint, narrow groove.


WOOD

[Illustration: WOOD]

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 60. 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:64. 1897. =3.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 433. 1898. =4.=
    Waugh _Plum Cult._ 168. 1901.

Wood is one of the comparatively new Americanas and seems to have
considerable merit, especially for cold climates. It is attractive in
color; above the average size; good in quality, though not the best of
its species; and the trees in habit of growth and in productiveness are
better than most Americanas. It is sufficiently early to fit into the
short seasons of northern latitudes very well. Wood is one of the sorts
that can be recommended for the coldest parts of this State.

This variety, according to a letter from the originator and introducer,
Joseph Wood of Windom, Minnesota, is a seedling from a choice plum
found growing on the bank of the Des Moines River, Cottonwood County,
Minnesota. It was not mentioned in pomological literature previous to
1894 and is of too recent origin to be widely distributed or well known.

    Tree of medium size, spreading, hardy, dense-topped, an annual
    and abundant bearer; trunk shaggy; branches roughish, thorny,
    zigzag, brownish ash-gray, with numerous, small lenticels;
    branchlets slender to medium, above the average length, twiggy,
    with short internodes, greenish-red changing to dark brown,
    lightly pubescent when young becoming glabrous in the fall,
    with numerous, conspicuous, large, much raised lenticels;
    leaf-buds of medium size and length, conical, appressed.

    Leaves falling early, ovate, two inches wide, four inches
    long, thin; upper surface light green, rugose, glabrous, with
    a narrow groove on the midrib; lower surface silvery-green,
    pubescent; apex taper-pointed, base abrupt, margin coarsely
    serrate, with long, taper-pointed teeth, eglandular; petiole
    five-eighths inch long, slender, tinged red, lightly pubescent,
    glandless or with one or two small, globose, greenish-red
    glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, eleven-sixteenths inch across,
    white; borne in clusters on lateral buds and spurs, in threes
    or fours; pedicels three-eighths inch long, slender, glabrous,
    green; calyx-tube greenish, narrowly campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, acute, lightly pubescent, occasionally
    tipped with red, serrate, with many marginal hairs, reflexed;
    petals oval, notched, tapering at the base to narrow claws of
    medium length; anthers light yellow; filaments five-sixteenths
    inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than the stamens, often
    defective.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and one-quarter
    inches in diameter, oblate, compressed, oblique, halves equal;
    cavity of average depth and width, flaring; suture a line; apex
    flattened or depressed; color dark red over a yellow ground,
    mottled, with thin bloom; dots numerous, minute, light russet,
    inconspicuous; stem one-half inch long, glabrous, detaches
    from the fruit when ripe; skin thick, tough, sour, adhering;
    flesh orange-yellow, juicy, coarse, fibrous, tender and
    melting, sweet, lacking in flavor; fair in quality; stone free,
    three-quarters inch by five-eighths inch in size, roundish,
    flattened, slightly oblique, blunt and flattened at the base,
    roundish at the apex, smooth; ventral suture acute, not ridged;
    dorsal suture acute, sometimes indistinctly grooved.


WORLD BEATER

[Illustration: WORLD BEATER]

_Prunus hortulana_

    =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:52. 1892. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:65. 1897. =3.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =41=:54. 1896.
    =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 182. 1901.

World Beater is very similar to Wayland, differing chiefly in being
a week earlier and, as the color-plate shows, the plums are a little
smaller and more oval. In tree-characters, as the two grow at this
Station, World Beater is perhaps the better plum. This variety has the
same place in pomology as Wayland, a place which it fills possibly a
little better. It may be recommended for culinary purposes and as a late
plum for regions where the peach is hardy. Plums of this species have
small value in New York except for the sake of variety.

World Beater was grown from a seed of a plum found near Nashville,
Tennessee, in 1838, by J. H. Tinsley and planted in Lincoln County,
Kentucky. About ten years later trees of the variety were taken to Clay
County, Missouri, and were further propagated but the variety remained
practically unknown until the fall of 1890 when it was introduced by
Stark Brothers of Missouri.

    Tree large, vigorous, spreading, open and flat-topped, hardy
    where the peach can be grown, productive; branches rough and
    shaggy, somewhat thorny, dark ash-gray, with numerous, large
    lenticels; branchlets medium to above in thickness and length,
    twiggy, with internodes of average length, green changing to
    dark chestnut-red, glossy, glabrous, with few, conspicuous,
    large, raised lenticels; leaf-buds very small and short,
    obtuse, plump, appressed.

    Leaves folded upward, broadly lanceolate, peach-like, one and
    three-quarters inches wide, four and one-half inches long,
    thin; upper surface smooth, glossy, with a shallow groove on
    the midrib; lower surface pubescent on the midrib and larger
    veins; apex acuminate, base abrupt, margin serrate, glandular;
    petiole one inch long, slender, tinged red, pubescent on one
    side, with from two to six small, globose, brownish glands
    scattered on the stalk or base of the leaf.

    Blooming season late and long; flowers appearing after the
    leaves, three-quarters inch across, white, with a disagreeable
    odor; borne in clusters from lateral buds, in twos, threes
    or fours; pedicels three-quarters inch long, very slender,
    glabrous, green; calyx-tube greenish, campanulate, glabrous;
    calyx-lobes narrow, acuminate, slightly pubescent towards the
    base of the inner surface, serrate and with reddish glands,
    erect; petals ovate, crenate, fringed, with pubescent claws of
    medium width; anthers yellowish; filaments five-sixteenths inch
    long; pistil glabrous, equal to the stamens in length.

    Fruit very late, season short; one inch by seven-eighths inch
    in size, roundish-ovate or oval, not compressed, halves equal;
    cavity narrow, shallow, rather abrupt; suture a line; apex
    pointed; color carmine, bloomless; dots medium in number,
    small, whitish or sometimes reddish, somewhat conspicuous; stem
    slender, medium to above in length, glabrous, not adhering to
    the fruit; skin thick, tough, astringent, adhering slightly;
    flesh light yellow, juicy, coarse, melting near the skin but
    firmer and fibrous next the pit, sweet except near the center,
    strongly aromatic; fair to good; stone often tinged red,
    adhering, three-quarters inch by three-eighths inch in size,
    oval, turgid, angular, pointed at the base and apex, roughish;
    ventral suture wide, blunt, ridged; dorsal suture acute or with
    an indistinct, shallow groove.


WYANT

_Prunus americana_

    =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 327. 1885. =2.= _Ibid._ 85. 1890.
    =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:46. 1892. =4.= _Ia. Hort.
    Soc. Rpt._ 448. 1893. =5.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =31=:345. 1895.
    =6.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._ =73=:192. 1897. =7.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
    =63=:24, 65 fig. 32, 66. 1897. =8.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 24.
    1897. =9.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:47. 1898. =10.= _Ia. Sta.
    Bul._ =46=:292. 1900. =11.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 167 fig., 168.
    1901. =12.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:32. 1903. =13.= _Ga.
    Sta. Bul._ =67=:284, 285 fig. 1904. =14.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._
    =93=:44, 49 fig. 1905.

Wyant is one of the standard Americana plums, ranking well with the
best of them in both fruit and tree-characters. While it is almost
beyond question a true Americana (from its history it could hardly be
otherwise,) it has a number of characters that mark it as a departure
from the usual type of _Prunus americana_. The calyx-tube is bright
red, a character found only in a few other varieties of this species;
the stamens are much longer than is usual in the species and much more
numerous; the pistils are often defective; the flowers are borne in
greater profusion; the plums do not have the distinctive Americana taste;
the flesh is less juicy than usual; the skin is free and the stones are
nearly free and have pitted surfaces. Some of these characters are so
valuable in a native plum that Wyant may well be used to breed from. The
trees from which the description here given was made came from C. L.
Watrous, Des Moines, Iowa, and to the best of our belief are true to name.

This variety, according to a letter from J. E. Wyant, Shellsburg, Iowa,
was found by J. B. Wyant of Janesville, Iowa, while hunting for wild
plums in 1866 on the Cedar River near his home. The following year he
transplanted the tree to his yard. About 1874, J. E. Wyant told R. Royce
of Shellsburg, Iowa, proprietor of the Benton County Nursery, of this
tree. Royce secured cuttings from the original tree and began propagating
the plum. Fruits were sent to Professor J. L. Budd, Ames, Iowa, who named
it Wyant. The variety was introduced by Mr. Royce and was disseminated
by him and by Professor Budd. In 1897 it was added to the fruit catalog
list of the American Pomological Society.

    Tree small, spreading and straggling, flat-topped, very hardy,
    productive, healthy; branches rough and shaggy, zigzag, thorny,
    dark ash-gray, with numerous, large lenticels; branchlets
    willowy, slender, long, with long internodes, greenish-red
    changing to reddish-brown, glossy, glabrous, with conspicuous,
    raised lenticels of average size and number; leaf-buds small,
    pointed, strongly appressed.

    Leaves falling early, folded upward, oval, one and five-eighths
    inches wide, three and one-quarter inches long, thin; upper
    surface green, smooth, glabrous, grooved on the midrib and
    larger veins; lower surface silvery-green, lightly pubescent;
    apex acuminate, base abrupt, margin coarsely and doubly
    serrate, the serrations sharp-pointed, not glandular; petiole
    one-half inch long, tinged red, pubescent, glandless or with
    from one to five globose, yellowish-green glands on the stalk.

    Blooming season medium to late, of average length; flowers
    appearing with the leaves, showy on account of the many
    blossoms and peculiar appearance caused by the numerous long
    stamens, whitish, with disagreeable odor; borne in dense
    clusters on lateral buds and spurs, one to four flowers in
    each cluster; pedicels one-half inch long, slender, glabrous,
    green, faintly tinged with red; calyx-tube red, obconic,
    glabrous; calyx-lobes narrow, acute, lightly pubescent on
    the inner surface, serrate and with numerous marginal hairs,
    erect; petals small, narrow-ovate, crenate, with narrow, long
    claws; stamens very numerous; anthers yellowish; filaments
    three-eighths inch long; pistil slender, glabrous, shorter than
    the stamens, often defective.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period short; one and one-quarter
    inches in diameter, not symmetrical in shape, oblong-obovate
    to nearly ovate, oblique, somewhat truncate, halves equal;
    cavity shallow, narrow, flaring; suture a line; apex slightly
    flattened; color dark carmine over a yellow ground which
    largely disappears as maturity advances, with thin bloom;
    dots numerous, very small, light russet, inconspicuous; stem
    slender, one-half inch long, glabrous, dehiscent; skin thin,
    tender, separating readily; flesh dark golden-yellow, juicy,
    tender and melting, sweet, with the Americana flavor less
    marked than in other varieties; of fair quality; stone nearly
    free, seven-eighths inch by five-eighths inch in size, broadly
    oval, flattened, blunt at the base, somewhat pointed at the
    apex, with pitted, dark colored surfaces; ventral suture blunt
    or slightly winged, shallowly ridged; dorsal suture acute, with
    shallow, narrow, distinct groove.


YELLOW EGG

[Illustration: YELLOW EGG]

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Rea _Flora_ 209. 1676. =2.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1528,
    1529. 1688. =3.= Langley _Pomona_ 95, Pl. XXV fig. VI. 1729.
    =4.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 3. 1754. =5.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb.
    Fr._ =2=:107, Pl. XX fig. 10. 1768. =6.= Knoop _Fructologie_
    =2=:59. 1771. =7.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:29, Tab. 175 fig.
    1; 38, Tab. 188 fig. 1. 1796. =8.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_
    20, 21. 1803. =9.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 233, fig. 8. 1817.
    =10.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831. =11.= Prince _Pom.
    Man._ =2=:57, 58. 1832. =12.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 258, 269.
    1832. =13.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 299, 301. 1846.
    =14.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=: fig. 1846. =15.= Thomas _Am.
    Fruit Cult._ 333. 1849. =16.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 424. 1854.
    =17.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 520. 1859. =18.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
    Cat._ 88. 1862. =19.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 954 fig. 1869.
    =20.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 18. 1871. =21.= Koch _Deut. Obst._
    560. 1876. =22.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 730. 1884. =23.= Mathieu
    _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889. =24.= Fell _Cat._ 49. 1893. =25.= _Guide
    Prat._ 163, 354. 1895. =26.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:193.
    1897.

    _Aechte Gelbe Eierpflaume_ 25. _Albert’s Damascene_ 23, 25.
    _Albertus Damen Pflaume_ 20, 23, 25. _Askew’s Golden_ 20.
    _Askew’s Golden Egg_ 16, 19, 22, 23, 25. _Aubertiana_ 21.
    _Bonum Magnum_ 11, 20, 22, 23, 25. Bonum Magnum 1, 2. _Col.
    Young’s Seedling_ 16. _Dame Aubert_ 10, 11, 13, 17, 19, 22, 23,
    25. _Dame Ambert_ 16. Dame Aubert 5, 12. _Damas Aubert_ 7, 23,
    25. _Dame Aubert Blanche_ 10, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 25. _Dame
    Ambert Blanche_ 16. _Dame Aubert Grosse Luisante_ 11. _Dame
    Ambert Jaune_ 16. _Dame Aubert Jaune_ 10, 11, 17, 19, 20, 23.
    Darwin Peach 24. _Die Albertus Damenpflaume_ 7. _De Besançon_
    25. _De Monsieur_ 25 incor. Die Grosse Weisse Glanzende 7. Die
    Kaiserliche Weisse Pflaume ?7. _D’OEuf_ 25. _D’OEuf Blanche_
    25. _Dutch Plum_ 1, 11. _Dutch Plumb_ 3. _Echte Gelbe Eier
    Pflaume_ 23. _Edle Gelbe Eger Pflaume_ 20. _Edle Gelbe Eier
    Pflaume_ 23, 25. _Egg Plum_ 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17,
    19, 20, 22, 23, 25. _Eier Pflaume_ 23, 25. _Gelbe Eger Pflaume_
    20, 23, 25. _Gelbe Egg_ 20, 23, 25. _Gelbe Malonke_ 23, 25.
    _Gelbe Ungarische Eier Pflaume_ 23, 25. _Gelbe Marunke_ 23,
    25. Gelbe Eierpflaume 23. _Gelbe Eierpflaume_ 20, 25. _Grosse
    Weisse Glanzende_ 20, 23, 25. Great Mogul ?2. Grosse Datte ?5.
    _Grosse-Luisante_ 5, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 20, 22,
    23, 25. _Gros Luisante_ 12. _Gelbe Ungarische Eyerpflaume_
    20. _Grosse Prune Blanche_ 20, 23, 25. _Grosse Maronke_ 25.
    _Grosse Marouk_ 20, 23, 25. _Grosse Glanzende Alberts Pflaume_
    23, 25. _Grosse Glanzende_ 20, 25. _Grosse Glanzende Pflaume_
    23. _Grosse Gelbe Eier Pflaume_ 23, 25. _Grosse Marunke_ 23.
    _Grünliche Dattel Pflaume von Besançon_ 23, 25. _Hick’s large
    Egg?_ 11. Impériale Blanche ?5. _Impériale Blanche_ ?7, 10, 11,
    12, 13, 17, 19, 20, 22, ?23, 25. _Imperial Blanc_ 11. _Large
    Yellow Egg_ 11. _Magnum Bonum_ 19. Monsieur’s Plum ?4, ?8.
    _Monsieur’s Plum_ ?4. Mogul 9. _Monsieur_ 11. _Mogul_ 4, 8, 11,
    23. _Mogul Plum_ 25. Mogule Plumb 3. _Mogule_ 11. _Mogol Plum_
    20, 23, 25. _Mogols Pflaume_ 20, 23, 25. _Mogul’s Pflaume_ 23,
    25. Prune de Monsieur? 4, 6. _Prune de Monsieur_ 23 incor.
    _Prune OEuf_ 20. Prune Dame Aubert 14, 20. _Prune d’Oeuf_ 20,
    23. _Prune d’Oeuf blanche_ 6, 23. _Prune d’Inde Blanc_ 19.
    _Prune De Besançon_ 20, 23. Prune Dame d’Aubert 21. _Prune
    d’Inde Blanche_ 23. Supreme ?14. Wentworth 13. _Wentworth_ ?8,
    10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 19, 23, 25. Wentworth Plumb ?3. _White
    Imperial_ 9, 11, 15, 16, 19, 23. White Imperial 11. White
    Imperial Bonum Magnum 4, 8. _White Holland_ 3, 4, 8, 10, 11,
    12, 16, 17, 19, 23, 25. _White Magnum Bonum_ 9, 11, 13, 15,
    16, 19, 20, 23, 25. _Weisse Kaiser Pflaume_ 23, 25. _Weisse
    Hollandische Pflaume_ 23, 25. _White Bonum Magnum_ 3, 11, 20,
    23, 25. _White Egg Plum_ 11. White Magnum Bonum 10, 12, 17, 18,
    22, 23. _White Mogul_ 10, 12, 13, 16, 19, 20, 22, 23, 25. White
    Egg 15. _White Egg_ 16, 19, 23, 25. _Weisser Kaiser_ 23, 25.
    _Weisse Magnum Bonum_ 20, 23, 25. _Weisse Kaiserin_ 23 incor.
    _Yellow Magnum Bonum_ 10, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 22, 23, 25.
    _Yellow Bonum Magnum_ 20, 23, 25. _Young’s Superior Egg_ ?11.
    _Yellow Egg_ 18, 23, 25.

The characters of Yellow Egg were given in the discussion of the group
which bears its name and but little more needs to be said of the
variety. As the largest and handsomest of the yellow plums it is worth
consideration by either the amateur or the commercial fruit-grower in New
York. At best, however, it is fit only for cooking and is none too good
for culinary purposes. The trees are very satisfactory on all but very
light soils. As has been suggested before, this plum ought to be crossed
with varieties of better quality with the hope of getting as handsome a
fruit but one which could be used for dessert purposes.

The references and synonyms show that Yellow Egg is a plum with an
interesting history, but unfortunately the accounts of its origin
and subsequent history have been but poorly preserved. Rea, in 1676,
described the Yellow Egg as the Bonum Magnum or Dutch Plum; we may
infer from this that the English obtained the variety from Holland.
Knoop of Holland, in 1771, described the variety under the name Prune
d’Oeuf Blanche, indicating a French origin. Knoop describes the Prune De
Monsieur as similar and this plum has ever since been held as doubtfully
identical. Duhamel, in _Traite des Arbres Fruitiers_, 1768, described
Yellow Egg as the Dame Aubert. Kraft in _Pomona Austriaca_, 1796, gave
it as the Die Grosse Weisse Glanzende, oder Die Albertus Damenpflaume.
These references show that Yellow Egg was well known at an early date.
Because of its close resemblance to many varieties, probably due to
the propagation of seedlings from it, much confusion exists in the
nomenclature of Yellow Egg. White Imperial was separated by Duhamel and
Prince; but Miller, Thompson and most of the subsequent writers give
it as the same. Duhamel believed the Imperial Blanche (White Imperial)
to be the Grosse Datte. So, too, the Wentworth was at first separated
but, later, was recorded as identical. Koch calls Yellow Egg one of the
Datterpflaumen (Date Plums) though he states that there is another Date
Plum known by Tragus more than three hundred years ago as Prunidactyla.
De Candolle seems to hold to the names Dame d’Aubert and Aubertina for
this plum. Professor Budd in exploring southwest Russia and Poland found
a Dame Aubert differing from our Yellow Egg only in minor characters
which he was told came from central Asia.

The exact date of the importation of Yellow Egg to this country is
unknown. Coxe, in 1817, described it as the Mogul and later Prince gave
it the name Yellow Egg. Owing to this change in name, we find America
now and then given as its place of origin by both American and English
writers. In 1862, the American Pomological Society added it to its
fruit catalog list under the name White Magnum Bonum but in 1871, the
name was changed to Yellow Egg. The Darwin Peach, sent out by Fell, a
nurseryman in England, has proved to be identical at this Station and its
distributor, in a recent letter, states that this plum, which has been
growing on his place thirty years, “is apparently identical to the White
Magnum Bonum” which is of course Yellow Egg.

    Tree, large, vigorous, round-topped, open, hardy, very
    productive; trunk roughish; branches numerous, ash-gray, nearly
    smooth, with rather large lenticels; branchlets slender,
    short, with long intemodes, greenish-red changing to dull
    brownish-red, dull, lightly pubescent throughout the season,
    covered with thin bloom, with few, inconspicuous, small
    lenticels; leaf-buds above medium in size, long, pointed, free.

    Leaves flattened or somewhat folded backward, oval, two and
    one-half inches wide, four and one-quarter inches long,
    leathery; upper surface dark green, pubescent, slightly rugose,
    with grooved midrib; lower surface medium green, thickly
    pubescent; apex abruptly pointed or acute, base acute, margin
    doubly serrate, with few dark glands; petiole five-eighths inch
    long, thick, reddish-purple, pubescent, glandless or with one
    or two globose, yellowish-green glands variable in position.

    Blooming season short; flowers appearing after the leaves, one
    inch across, white, with a yellowish tinge at the tip of the
    petals; borne on lateral buds and spurs, singly or in pairs;
    pedicels one-half inch long, covered with thick pubescence,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, campanulate, pubescent; calyx-lobes
    broad, obtuse, pubescent, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals
    roundish-oval, crenate or sometimes slightly notched, tapering
    to short, broad claws; anthers yellow; filaments three-eighths
    inch long; pistil pubescent, longer than the stamens; stigma
    oblique.

    Fruit late, season short; two inches by one and five-eighths
    inches in size, long-oval, compressed, halves nearly equal;
    cavity of medium depth, narrow, abrupt; suture shallow, often
    a line; apex roundish; color golden-yellow, covered with
    thick bloom; dots numerous, small, white, inconspicuous; stem
    slender, one and one-quarter inches long, pubescent, adhering
    well to the fruit, surrounded at the cavity by a fleshy
    collar; skin thin, slightly astringent, separating readily;
    flesh golden-yellow, rather juicy, moderately coarse, firm, of
    average sweetness, mild; good; stone semi-free or free, one and
    one-quarter inches by three-quarters inch in size, oval, rather
    flat, acute at the base and apex, with roughened and pitted
    surfaces; ventral suture wide, heavily ridged, often distinctly
    winged; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.


YELLOW GAGE

_Prunus domestica_

    =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 25. 1828. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._
    =2=:108. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 287, 288 fig. 115.
    1845. =4.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 329. 1849. =5.= Cole _Am.
    Fr. Book_ 208 fig. 1849. =6.= _Horticulturist_ =7=:403. 1852.
    =7.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 36, 55. 1852. =8.= Elliott _Fr. Book_
    414. 1854. =9.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 210. 1856. =10.= Bridgeman
    _Gard. Ass’t_ =3=:126. 1857. =11.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 190,
    Pl. XIII. 1865. =12.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:163, fig. 82. 1873.
    =13.= Barry _Fr. Garden_ 417. 1883. =14.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
    443. 1889. =15.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 126. 1901.

    _American Wheat_ 10. _American Yellow Gage_ of some 3, 4,
    8, 11, 14. American Yellow Gage 10. _Auserlesene Gelhe
    Reine-Claude_ 14. _Harvest Gage_ 6, 8, 11, 14. Prince’s Gage
    1. Prince’s Gelbe Reine-Claude 14. Prince’s Yellow Gage 2, 3,
    4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11. _Prince’s Yellow Gage_ 5, 12, 13, 14, 15.
    Reine-Claude Jaune De Prince 12. _White Gage_ of some 3, 8, 11,
    14.

Yellow Gage belongs to the Reine Claude, or as it is so often called,
the Green Gage group of plums. There are now a great number of these
plums under cultivation in America, most of which have originated in this
country and nearly all of which, as we have said before, are better
than similar kinds from Europe. It is difficult to select from the
numerous first-rate plums of this group the best varieties to retain in
home or commercial orchards. Among these, however, Yellow Gage should be
kept for the home orchard at least. It is a rather large fruit, with a
beautiful color—golden-yellow often with a faint blush, with a firm and
juicy yet tender flesh and a most refreshing admixture of sweet and sour
together with the richness which characterizes the Reine Claude plums.
The fruits come, too, at a time when the market is not overstocked with
these fine plums and the season is particularly long. A review of the
tree-characters in the description which follows shows that in the main
they are good though some complain that the variety is not productive.
This precariousness in bearing, together with the tender skin which keeps
Yellow Gage from standing shipment well, probably precludes the variety
from a high place in a commercial list but does not prevent its being a
most desirable plum for home planting.

This excellent old variety was probably one of the first plums to
originate in America. It came from a Reine Claude pit planted, with many
others, by William Prince[226] in 1783 in the celebrated Prince nurseries
at Flushing, Long Island. Despite its early origin and fine qualities it
has never had much recognition from pomologists. Downing described it in
1845 but neither Manning nor Kenrick in their excellent books on fruits
mention this plum. The American Pomological Society in 1852 listed it
with the varieties of plums promising well and in 1856 placed it on the
list of those worthy of general cultivation.

    Tree very large and vigorous, spreading, dense-topped, hardy,
    productive; trunk roughish; branches dark ash-gray, smooth
    except for the numerous, raised lenticels of various sizes;
    branchlets medium to below in thickness, short, with internodes
    of average length, greenish-red changing to brownish-red,
    dull, lightly pubescent, with inconspicuous, small lenticels;
    leaf-buds large, long, conical, free; leaf-scars prominent.

    Leaves long-oval or obovate, two inches wide, four and
    one-quarter inches long, thick, somewhat leathery; upper
    surface dark green, covered with fine hairs, the midrib
    grooved; lower surface silvery-green, sparingly pubescent; apex
    and base acute, margin serrate, with few small, dark glands;
    petiole five-eighths inch long, pubescent, tinged red, with
    from one to three smallish, globose, greenish-yellow glands
    variable in position.

    Blooming season intermediate in time and length; flowers
    appearing after the leaves, one and one-eighth inches wide,
    white, fragrant; borne on lateral spurs, singly or in pairs;
    pedicels seven-eighths inch long, with short, thin pubescence,
    greenish; calyx-tube green, enlarged at the base, campanulate,
    lightly pubescent; calyx-lobes narrow, obtuse, lightly
    pubescent on both surfaces, glandular-serrate, reflexed; petals
    oval, entire, tapering to short, broad claws; anthers yellow;
    filaments one-quarter inch long; pistil glabrous, longer than
    the stamens.

    Fruit mid-season, ripening period of medium length; one and
    one-half inches by one and three-eighths inches in size, oval,
    slightly compressed, halves nearly equal; cavity shallow,
    narrow, abrupt; suture shallow; apex roundish or depressed;
    dull yellow, faintly splashed and streaked with green,
    sometimes tinged on the sunny side with light red, overspread
    with thin bloom; dots numerous, small, white, inconspicuous,
    clustered about the base; stem three-quarters inch long, thinly
    pubescent, adhering well to the fruit; skin thin, rather sour,
    separating readily; flesh golden-yellow, juicy, firm but
    tender, sweet, mild, of pleasant flavor; very good; stone free,
    the cavity larger than the pit, one inch by five-eighths inch
    in size, oval, turgid, roundish, abruptly contracted at the
    base, blunt at the apex; ventral suture broad, blunt, faintly
    ridged; dorsal suture widely and deeply grooved.




CHAPTER IV

THE MINOR VARIETIES OF PLUMS


=Abbaye d’Arton.= Domestica. 1. _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 445. 1906.

This variety came from a chance seedling found in the ruins of the Abbaye
d’Arton at Valreas, France; it was propagated in 1897 by M. Valdy of
Valreas. Tree very productive; fruit large, obovate; suture obscure; stem
short; pale red, darker on the sunny side; bloom thick; flesh yellow,
juicy, sweet; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Abricotee de Braunau.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 349. 1866. =2.=
Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 429. 1881. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 683.
1884. =4.= _Mathieu Nom. Pom._ 423. 1889.

_Abricotée de Braunau_ 4. Braunauer Aprikosenartige 2. Braunauer
Aprikosenartige Pflaume 4. _Braunauer Aprikosenartige Damascene_ =4.=
_Braunauer Neue Kernfrucht_ 2. _Reine-Claude Braunau_ =3, 4.=

Dr. Liegel of Braunau, Germany, originated this variety about 1810. Fruit
large, roundish; suture distinct; greenish; bloom rather heavy; dots
distinct, reddish; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, sweet; good; stone free;
mid-season.

=Abricotee de Lange.= Domestica. =1.= _Mas Pom. Gen._ =2=:103, fig. 52.
1873.

_Langes Aprikosenpflaume_ 1.

Dr. Liegel of Braunau, Germany, grew this variety and named it after
Lange of Altenburg. Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture slight;
yellow, blushed in the sun; flesh yellow, tender, sweet, aromatic; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Abricotee de Trauttenberg.= Domestica. =1.= _Mas Pom. Gen._ =2=:35, fig.
18. 1873. =2.= Mathieu, _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889.

_Abricotée de Trauttenberg_ 2. _Abricotée Rouge de Trauttenberg_ 2.
_Trauttenbergs Aprikosenpflaume_ 1. Von Trauttenberg’s Aprikosenpflaume 2.

Liegel raised the Abricotée de Trauttenberg from a stone of the Red
Apricot and named it after Baron Emmanuel of Trauttenberg, Prague. Fruit
medium in size, oval, red; flesh yellow, firm, aromatic; good; freestone;
mid-season.

=Abricot Princesse.= Domestica. Mentioned in Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:54.
1771.

=Admirable.= Domestica. Mentioned in Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803.

=Admiral.= Domestica. =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 257. 1832. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 293. 1845. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 345. 1849.

_Corse’s Admiral_ 1, 2, 3.

Originated by Henry Corse, Montreal, Canada. Inferior in quality but
hardy, productive and showy; rarely grown. Fruit of medium size, oval,
sides unequal, light purple; dots yellow; bloom thin; stem long,
pubescent; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy; clingstone; mid-season.

=Admiral Schley.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:260. 1890. =2.=
Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Originated by H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa. Fruit roundish, yellow,
washed with deep bronze-red; dots small, numerous, yellow, distinct;
bloom thin; skin tough; flesh deep yellow, juicy, rich, sweet; very
good; stone large, oval, flattened, clinging. Apparently an improvement
over Hawkeye.

=Advance.= Americana. =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 142. 1901. =2.= Kerr _Cat._
1902-3.

Grown by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska, and introduced by J. W.
Kerr, Denton, Maryland, in 1902. Fruit large, oval; cavity very shallow;
suture a line; apex slightly depressed; dark red; dots many, conspicuous,
yellow; good; clingstone; tree vigorous and productive; said to be
resistant to rot.

=African.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 160. 1881.
=2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:60, 86. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 192,
193 fig. 1901.

Originated with G. Onderdonk[227] of Texas and introduced by him in
1870; said to be one of the best varieties of this species. Tree small,
spreading; fruit medium to large, roundish to oblong, dull, dark red;
dots large and small, white; skin thin, tough; flesh yellow, soft, juicy,
subacid; good; stone clinging; mid-season.

=Alabama.= _Triflora_ ×?. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:154. 1899. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 201. 1901.

_Normand No. 5_ 2

Sent out by J. L. Normand, Marksville, Louisiana. Fruit of medium size,
heart-shaped, light yellow with pink cheek; bloom thin; mid-season;
fruits drop before ripe but mature after falling; good; tree spreading,
twiggy; branches smooth, glossy, zigzag.

=Albany Beauty.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831. =2.=
Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 327. 1849. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 420. 1889.

_Belle d’Albany_ 3. _Denniston’s Albany Beauty_ 2, 3. _Denniston’s
Albany_ 1.

Produced in the garden of Isaac Denniston, Albany, New York, about 1835.
Fruit below medium in size, oval with a slight neck, greenish-yellow with
reddish spots on the sunny side; flesh yellow, juicy, rich, sweet; good;
stone free, small, pointed; mid-season; tree hardy; productive.

=Alberta.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory,
Canada. Fruit large; fairly productive; early.

=Alexander.= Species? =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 135. 1903. =2.= _Ibid._
424. 1905.

_Alexander’s Late_ 2.

Mentioned as a late native plum; productive; resistant to rot; clingstone.

=Alibuchari.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =9=:163. 1843. =2.= McIntosh
_Bk. Gard._ =2=:534. 1855.

An old European prune. Size medium, oval, purple; fair in quality;
freestone; shrivels on the tree; hardy; productive.

=Alice.= Americana mollis. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Originated by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, from seed of Van Buren. “Tree
a fine upright grower, with large, light red fruit of best quality.”

=Allen.= Species? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:78. 1892.

Allen’s Yellow 1.

An obsolete variety from Kansas of medium size, round, yellow and red;
skin thick; clingstone.

=Allfruit.= Simonii × Triflora. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:5. 1898. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 202. 1901.

Grown by Luther Burbank; named in 1898. Described by Waugh as follows:
“Fruit oblate, medium size; cavity deep, rounded; stem short; suture
rather shallow; color pale red with many large and small yellowish dots
and a thin white bloom; skin medium thick; flesh-medium firm, bright
yellow; flavor sweet and rich, fragrant; good to best; stone medium to
large, slightly flattened, semi-cling; leaf large, oval, pointed, rather
finely double crenulate and minutely glandular, rather thick, glistens as
if varnished; petiole short, glandular.”

=Allie.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory,
Canada. Tree productive; fruit of medium size; skin red; flavor good;
early.

=Aloe.= Domestica. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 55. 1878.

Mentioned as an old Scottish variety; is not hardy at Montreal, Canada.

=Alois Reine Claude.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 420.
1889.

Alois’ Reine-Claude. _Reine-Claude d’Alois._ _Reine-Claude Aloise._

=Aloo Bokhara.= Domestica? =1.= _Horticulturist_ =3=:144. 1848.

A variety noted by Sir Alexander Burnes, while traveling in Bokhara, as
having a sweet kernel. He states that the stone, when ripe, can be seen
through the skin.

=Alpha.= Maritima. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1899. =2.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
=162=:254, 255. 1905.

A variety selected from wild trees by E. W. Winsor of New Jersey and sent
to J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland, who introduced it in 1899. Very small,
roundish, purple; no cavity nor suture; flesh greenish-yellow; poor;
freestone; early; tree small, compact, very productive.

=Alpha-Americana.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1900.

A seedling of De Soto pollinated by Weaver; grown by N. K. Fluke,
Davenport, Iowa, in 1890. Fruit large, oval with a truncate base, clear
yellow, mottled with light red, lilac blush; suture distinct; flesh
yellow, firm and meaty; fair in quality; stone of medium size, flattened,
free; mid-season.

=Amaryllis.= Insititia. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:33. 1903.

Originated by August Dupuis, Village des Aulnaies, Province of Quebec,
in 1890 from seed of Mirabelle. Fruit large, roundish; cavity medium,
abrupt; suture distinct; apex rounded; greenish-yellow; dots indistinct;
flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, rich; good; clingstone.

=Amber.= Domestica? =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 577, 578. 1629. =2.=
Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68. 1699.

Described by Parkinson in 1629 as a small, round, yellow freestone plum
of mediocre quality; classified by him as “_Prunum Ambarinum_.”

=Amber Primordian.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 575. 1629. =2.=
Rea _Flora_ 206. 1676.

Mentioned by Parkinson in 1629 as an early, small, round, yellow, watery,
worthless plum.

=Ambre Tardif.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 421. 1889.

_Ambrée Tardive._

=Amelie Blanche.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:54. 1771.

Tree productive; fruit of medium size, roundish, yellow; obsolete.

=Amelie Noire.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:54. 1771.

Of ancient and unknown origin. Tree productive; fruit of medium size,
roundish, purplish-black; flesh dry; flavor fair; early.

=Amelioree.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Bul._ =10=:20. 1901.

D’Agen Ameliorée 1.

Ameliorée originated in eastern France and differs from Agen only in
being more vigorous; foliage and fruit larger and the season earlier.

=American Golden.= Hortulana. =1.= _Mo. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 182. 1895. =2.=
_Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =11=:283. 1898.

James B. Wild of Sarcoxie, Missouri, introduced this variety as a
seedling found in his neighborhood. Tree vigorous; fruit of medium
size, round; suture a line; cavity very shallow; stem medium; bright
golden-yellow; dots numerous, large, white; bloom thin; skin thick,
tough; flesh yellow, firm, sweet but sprightly; good; stone of medium
size, turgid, clinging; late.

=American Magnum Bonum.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 896.
1869.

Probably a seedling of Red Magnum Bonum from which it differs in that the
young shoots are pubescent, the stone clinging and the fruit better in
quality.

=American Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Wood Bros. _Cat._ 1898. Probably a
synonym.

=American Violet.= Domestica. =1.= _Le Bon Jard._ =1=:342. 1882. =2.=
_Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser., =3=:49. 1900. P. violette americaine 1.

Tree weak in growth, productive; fruit large, roundish-oval, light
purple; bloom thick; flesh yellow, sweet, juicy; quality good;
mid-season.

=American Wheat.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 289. 1845. =2.=
Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 346. 1849. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:129. 1873.

_American Wheat_ 3. Froment American 3.

A very small, round, pale blue plum with thin bloom; flesh greenish,
melting, juicy, sweet; poor; clingstone; mid-season; tree productive;
leaves small, light colored.

=Ancient City.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =6=:270 fig. 1858. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 941. 1869. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 684. 1884.

_Reagles’ Ancient City_ 1, 2.

Raised by C. Reagles, Schenectady, New York, supposedly from seed of
Washington. Fruit large, roundish; suture deep; sides unequal; yellow,
tinged with green, mottled with crimson specks next to the sun; bloom
thin; stem of medium length, thick; flesh yellow veined with white, firm,
coarse; good; freestone.

=Anderson.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:27. 1897. =2.= _Ia.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 488. 1904.

_Anderson’s Early Red_ 1.

Found growing on the Turkey River near Sioux Rapids, Iowa, by Mrs.
Vincent Anderson, about 1865. Trees productive; fruit of medium size;
good; mid-season.

=Angelina Burdett.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =13=:600. 1853. =2.=
Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:37. 1866-73. =3.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ 91. 1894.

Raised from seed by Henry Dowling of Woolston, England, about 1845. Tree
vigorous, hardy and productive; fruit of medium size, roundish; suture
deep, one side enlarged; skin thick; dark purple with brown dots and
heavy bloom; flesh greenish-yellow, rich, juicy, sprightly; stone small,
obovate, free; mid-season.

=Angouleme.= Domestica. =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 1901. _Reine-Claude
d’Angouleme_ 1.

Similar to Reine Claude.

=Anna.= Americana. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 90. 1885.

A variety grown from a wild plum root secured in Wisconsin by Mr. Charles
Gibb of Montreal, Canada.

=Anna Maria.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 896. 1869.

Originated by S. D. Pardee, New Haven, Connecticut. Fruit below medium
in size, roundish-oval; suture lacking; pale greenish-yellow splashed
with darker green; stem short; cavity small; flesh pale green, juicy,
melting, rich, sugary; good; stone nearly free; tree moderately vigorous,
spreading, productive.

=Anna Spath.= Domestica. =1.= Lange _Allgem. Garten._ =2=:421. 1879. =2.=
Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 401. 1881. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 421.
1889. =4.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._, 2d Ser. =3=:49. 1900.

_Anna Spaeth_ 3.

Originated with M. Spath at Baumschulenweg, Germany, about 1870. Tree
vigorous; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval, flattened at both ends;
skin tough, free; brownish-black; dots brownish; bloom thick; flesh
greenish-yellow, very juicy, mild; good; freestone; season late.

=Annual Bearer.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:11. 1901.

A seedling grown by Edson Gaylord, Nora Springs, Iowa. Fruit large,
oblong; suture distinct; purplish-red on a yellow ground; dots numerous,
small; bloom heavy; skin thick, tough; stone strongly flattened, oval,
pointed, sharp on both sides; flesh rich; flavor good; mid-season.

=Apple.= Americana. _Patten No._ 40.

A seedling of Hawkeye; fruit large, roundish, dark red; dots conspicuous;
suture a line; skin tender; flesh juicy, soft, fibrous, sweet; fair;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Apple.= Domestica. =1.= _Cole Am. Fr. Book_ 210. 1849. =2.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 373. 1857.

Apple Plum 1, 2.

Originated in the garden of D. U. Pratt, Chelsea, Massachusetts. Fruit
large, flattened like an apple; sides unequal; suture distinct; stem
short; cavity broad, deep; reddish-purple; bloom heavy; dots yellow;
flesh greenish-yellow, tender, slightly coarse, sweet, sprightly; skin
astringent; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Apricot.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._
=50=:32. 1898.

Tree bushy; fruit medium in size, roundish; suture slight; skin thick;
red over yellow; bloom thin; flesh reddish-yellow, juicy, sweet; quality
fair; stone large, flattened, clinging; mid-season.

=Aprikosenartige Mirabelle.= Insititia. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst.
Sort._ 426. 1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 421. 1889.

_Mirabelle Abricotée_ 2.

Said to be a synonym of Mirabelle; Oberdieck claims that this variety has
firmer and sweeter flesh, and that its shoots are glabrous.

=Arab.= Domestica. =1.= _Ind. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 29. 1885. =2.= _Mich. Sta.
Rpt._ 111. 1887.

Noted in the preceding references as imported from eastern Europe.

=Arctic.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A variety selected from wild plants by Thomas Frankland, Stonewall,
Manitoba, and tested at the Experimental Farm, Indian Head, Northwest
Territory, Canada. Fruit large, red; late.

=Ashes Seedling.= Species? Mentioned in _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:347. 1890.

=Ashridge Black.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 143. 1831. =2.=
McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ =2=:529. 1855.

An English variety not cultivated in this country. Medium in size,
roundish, purple, firm; quality fair; a good kitchen variety; tree hardy
and productive.

=Assiniboia.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at the Experimental Farm, Indian Head, Northwest
Territory, Canada; now discarded. Fruit of medium size; early.

=Aston.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 143. 1831.

A small, round, purple, clingstone plum of mediocre quality; obsolete.

=Aston Green Gage.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147.
1831.

=Atkins.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:262. 1900. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 143. 1901.

_Beatty_ 1, 2.

Originated with James Beatty at Atkins, Benton County, Iowa, and
introduced by R. Royce of the same place in 1894 under the name Beatty.
It became confused with the Beaty of Texas and Waugh renamed it, giving
it the name of the place of its origin. Fruit large, oval, slightly
compressed; cavity small; suture a line; red on a yellow ground; dots
small, numerous; bloom thin; flesh yellow; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=A-248.= Munsoniana × Triflora. =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 22. 1893. =2.= _Vt.
Sta. Bul._ =5=:67. 1898.

An early, dark crimson, heart-shaped plum of medium size, yellow flesh
and inferior quality.

=Aubert.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887. =2.= _Ia. Hort.
Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890. =3.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 292. Pl. V c and d. 1893.
=4.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 25. 1897. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._
328. 1903.

Dame Aubert Jaune 1, 2. _Dame Aubert Jaune_ 3. _Riga_ 115 2. Yellow
Aubert ?1, 3, 5. _Yellow Aubert_ 4.

Introduced from Russia by J. L. Budd of the Iowa Experiment Station in
1882. According to the introducer this variety was found in southwest
Russia and Poland; said to have come from central Asia. Evidently related
to the Yellow Egg, differing in being earlier and of better quality.

=Auburn.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 897. 1869.

A variety said by Downing to be a native of western New York. Fruit
medium in size, oval; suture shallow; skin light reddish-purple with a
thin bloom; stem short; flesh coarse, orange-yellow, not juicy, sweet,
pleasant; good; freestone; early.

=Auchtertyre.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 143. 1831.

A small, oval, purple, early plum; quality medium; freestone; obsolete.

=August.= Nigra. =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 20. 1889. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:27. 1897.

_August Red_ 1.

A large purplish-red variety introduced by J. W. Kerr, Maryland. Fruit
oblong; clingstone; tree upright, vigorous, unproductive; foliage
resembling that of an apricot.

=August Zwetsche.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 421. 1889.

_Liegel’s August Zwetsche._

=Aunt Ann.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 351. 1866. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 918. 1869. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ 275. 1873.

_Guthrie’s Aunt Ann_ 1. Guthrie’s Aunt Ann 2. _Aunt Ann_ 2, 3. Tante Anne
3.

This variety was grown in Scotland by a Mr. Guthrie. A large, round,
greenish-yellow plum; flesh rich, juicy; freestone; tree hardy,
productive.

=Aurora.= Hortulana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900-03.

_Moreman’s Cherry_ 1.

Originated by Theodore Williams of Nebraska and introduced in 1898 by J.
W. Kerr of Maryland under the name “Moreman’s Cherry;” in 1900, Mr. Kerr
changed the name to Aurora. Fruit large, round, cherry-red deepening to
dark red; clingstone; season late; tree vigorous, productive.

=Austrian Quetsche.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831.
=2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:78. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 311.
1845.

_Bremen Prune_ 2, 3. _Quetsche de Breme_ 3.

A strain of the German Prune from which it differs in being a little
later and of somewhat better flavor.

=Autumn Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =10=:167. 1843. =2.= _Ann.
Pom. Belge_ =7=:43, Pl. 1859. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 380. 1866. =4.= Mas
_Le Verger_ =6=:33, fig. 1866-73. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435. 1889.

_Autumn Gage_ 3, 5. Herbst Reine Claude 5. Prune Autumn Gage 2.
_Reine-Claude d’Automne_ 2, 5. Reine-Claude d’Automne 4. Roe’s Autumn 3.
_Roe’s Autumn Gage_ 3, 5.

Raised by Wm. Roe, Newburgh, New York. Tree spreading, hardy, productive;
fruit of medium size, oval; suture shallow; stem of medium length; pale
yellow with a thin bloom; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy and sweet with a
rich and excellent flavor; stone long, compressed, pointed at both ends,
free; season late.

=Azure.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:67, fig. 34. 1873.

Reine-Claude Azurée 1.

Mas states that this variety grew in his garden from a sucker.
Tree vigorous, medium in productiveness; fruit medium in size,
roundish-oblate; suture a line; skin tender; purplish-black; stem long,
slender to medium; cavity deep; flesh green, fine, tender, soft, juicy,
sweet, aromatic; freestone; mid-season.

=Bailey.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1901-1902.

A variety sent J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland, by the Division of Pomology,
United States Department of Agriculture, for testing. Tree vigorous,
upright, productive; fruit above medium in size, oblong, very dark red;
good; clingstone; said to be free from rot.

=Bailey.= Domestica. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:20. 1894.

Known only from a plate in the possession of the Rochester Lithographing
Company, made some time prior to 1886, representing this plum and stating
that it “has not failed to bear for twenty-five successive years.”

=Baker.= Insititia. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =177=:41, 43. 1899. =2.=
_Ibid._ =187=:77, 78. 1901.

Baker Damson 1.

Tree upright, vigorous, unproductive; fruit small, roundish-ovate;
stem slender, inserted in a slight cavity; dark blue or black; flesh
greenish-amber, juicy; good; stone small, roundish, clinging.

=Baker.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 101. 1891. =2.= _Cornell
Sta. Bul._ =131=:182. 1897. =3.= Brown Bros. Cat. 1900.

_Baker’s German Prune_ 1, 3.

A seedling of the German Prune which had its origin at Collingwood,
Canada, with a Mr. Baker. Tree hardy, an annual bearer, productive; fruit
resembles the Italian Prune in color and quality but is a trifle smaller
and two weeks later.

=Baldwin.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 333. 1888. =2.= _S. Dak.
Sta. Bul._ =93=:9, 51 fig. 1905.

A wild variety found by D. L. Royer of Iowa. Tree vigorous; fruit
large, round; apex flat; cavity deep, narrow; dark red, mottled with
dull yellow; bloom heavy; dots whitish, minute, numerous; skin thick,
astringent; flesh dark yellow, flavor pleasant, acid; good; stone
semi-free, rounded, thick, of medium size.

=Ballonartige Gelbe Zwetsche.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 421. 1889.

_Damas-Ballon Jaune._ _Damas-Ballon Panachée Variete._

=Ballonartige Rote Damascene.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 421. 1889.

_Damas-Ballon Rouge._

=Bankalari Fruh Damascene.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
421. 1889.

_Bankalari’s Rote Früh Damascene_ 1.

=Banker’s Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831. =2.=
Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 202. 1835.

Originated in New York. Fruit large; flavor good; adapted to drying.

=Bant Späte Reine Claude.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
422. 1889.

_Bant’s Late Green Gage._

=Baraboo.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:28. 1897. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:262. 1900.

Found wild near Baraboo, Wisconsin, about 1860 and introduced by William
Toole of the same place in 1897. Tree vigorous, spreading, symmetrical;
fruit of medium size, round, dull yellow, overlaid with red; flesh firm,
mild, sweet; quality fair; mid-season; drops badly and is a poor keeper.

=Barbary.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 207. 1676.

_Barberry_ 2.

A large, egg-shaped, early, productive, black plum.

=Barkhausen Violette Reine Claude.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 422. 1889.

=Barkley.= Americana? =1.= Letter from Kerr.

_Teeter_ 1.

From Pennsylvania; fruit medium in size, green, blushed with red; good.

=Barnsback.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:11. 1901. =2.= _S.
Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:9. 1905.

_Barnsbeck_ 2.

Originated at Vermilion, South Dakota. Fruit large, roundish; suture a
line; yellowish overspread with light red; sparsely dotted; heavy bloom;
skin medium thick, astringent until fully ripe; flesh pale yellow or
reddish, juicy, sweet; good; stone nearly free; mid-season.

=Baronne Helen Trauttenberg.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422.
1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 352. 1895.

A variety said to resemble Italian Prune.

=Basaricatta.= Domestica. =1.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl. 1839.

Collo-Torto 1.

An Italian variety described by Gallesio in his _Pomona Italiana_. Fruit
long, prune-shaped, necked; skin golden-yellow; flesh yellow, firm, sweet
and agreeable; a good shipper.

=Bastle.= Species? =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:490. 1899.

Reported as very weak in growth and as having failed to produce fruit.

=Batchelor Damson.= Insititia. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:611. 1893.

Received for testing at the New York Experiment Station.

=Bazalicza.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:139. 1866-73. =2.=
Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 441. 1881. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422.
1889. =4.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 402. 1898. =5.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._
2d Ser., =3=:51. 1900.

Quetsche de Bazalicza 1. _Bazalicza Zwetsche_ 1. Bazalicza Zwetsche 2,
3. _Bazalicza’s Grosse Blaue Zwetsche_ 3. _Quetsche de Bazalicza_ 3.
Bazalicza’s Prune 4. Bazalicza Damson 5.

Raised by Liegel of Braunau, Germany, from seed of Red Magnum Bonum.
Tree vigorous, productive; fruit above medium size, oblong-oval; suture
shallow, halves usually unequal; skin free; dark purple; bloom thin;
flesh yellow, sweet; excellent; clingstone; early.

=Beach Plum.= Maritima.

“Beach Plum” is the common name for _Prunus maritima_.

=Beals.= Domestica.

A seedling raised by George F. Beals, of Viscalia, California, and
sent to Nelson Smith of Geneva, New York, for testing. Fruit large,
egg-shaped, lop-sided; suture shallow; skin thick; blue, often purplish;
dots yellow; flesh firm, yellow, juicy, sweet; stone large, oval, rough;
mid-season.

=Bean.= Americana, =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 128. 1890. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =63=:28. 1897.

Found wild by H. Knudson, Springfield, Minnesota. Fruit below medium in
size, oblong; apex flattened; suture depressed; pale yellow tinged with
crimson; dots faint; skin astringent unless fully ripe; flesh pale yellow
or reddish, juicy, sweet, rich; stone large, oblong, rough, pointed,
grooved on the back; mid-season.

=Beaty.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:36, 60.
1902. =2.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 489. 1897. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
=32=:478. 1899. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 192. 1901.

Beauty’s Choice 1. Beaty Choice 2. Beauty 3. _Beaty’s Choice_ 4. _El
Paso_ 4. El Paso 1.

Originated under cultivation with Lee Beaty, Luling County, Texas, and
introduced by him in 1877. Tree irregular, spreading; fruit of medium
size, roundish; cavity shallow; light red; bloom thin; dots numerous;
flesh yellow; good; stone oval, turgid, clinging.

=Bechstein Spitzpflaume.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
422. 1889.

_Blaue Zipper._ _Prunus Oxycarpa._ _Rosinen Pflaume._ _Spitz Pflaume._
_Spitzige Rote Pflaume._ _Rote Zwetsche_ incor. _Rote Zipper._

=Bedford.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory,
Canada. Fruit of medium size.

=Beer Plum.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890.

One of the many Domesticas imported from Europe by Professor J. L. Budd.
This one is small and fit only for culinary purposes.

=Bell.= Species? =1.= _Tex. Dept. Agr. Bul._ =12=:102. 1910.

Bell’s October 1.

A variety said to be of value near Plainview, Texas.

=Belle de Hardy.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 352. 1895.

Said to resemble Agen.

=Belle de Louvain.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 392. 1857.
=2.= _Ibid._ 898. 1869. =3.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 471. 1894. =4.=
_Guide Prat._ 157, 352. 1895.

_Large Black Imperial?_ 4. _Plum of Louvain_ 1. _Prune de Louvain_ 2.
Schöne von Lowen 3. _Schöne von Lowen_ 4.

A seedling found in the nursery of Van Mons at Louvain, Belgium, about
1840. Tree vigorous, a biennial bearer; fruit large, long-oval; suture
distinct; deep purple with delicate bloom; flesh firm, yellowish, juicy,
rich; mid-season; valuable for culinary purposes.

=Belle de Paris.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser.
=3=:49. 1900.

=Belle de Riom.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831. =2.=
Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:83. 1873.

This variety is thought to have originated in the vicinity of the
French village of Riom, in the early part of the Nineteenth Century.
Tree vigorous, productive; fruit medium, oval; suture indistinct; skin
intense purple; dots white; flesh greenish-yellow, melting, rich, sweet,
aromatic; very good; stone oval, free; late.

=Belle de Schoeneberg.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom Pom._ 449. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 158, 352. 1895.

_Belle de Schöneberg._ 1. _Gloire de Schöneberg._ 1, 2. _Rotgefleckte
Gold Pflaume_ 1. _Rothgefleckte Goldpflaume_ 2. Schöne von Schöneberg 1.
_Schöne von Schöneberg_ 2.

Tree neither vigorous nor productive; fruit large, roundish,
reddish-violet; flesh yellow, sweet, agreeable; good; early.

=Belsiana.= Cerasifera. =1.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 471. 1887.

A wild plum resembling Myrobalan, selected by the Arabs and introduced
into France in 1878 by G. Luizet, to whom it was sent by Ferdinand
Lombard, horticulturist at Mustopha, Algieria. Fruit of medium size,
round; suture indistinct; cavity shallow; skin papery; amber-yellow, with
a rose tint on the sunny side; flesh amber-yellow, melting, sweet; stone
slightly clinging; early.

=Belvoir.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 680, 686. 1884.

Fruit above medium in size, round; suture faint; skin thin; black with
russet markings and dots; flesh yellow, tender, rich; freestone; late.

=Bender.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1896-7. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
143. 1901. =3.= _Wis. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 121. 1902. =4.= _S. Dak. Sta.
Bul._ =93=:10. 1905.

_Paul Wolf_ 4.

Reported to have been grown near Chaska, Minnesota, by Paul Wolf. Tree
very vigorous, productive; fruit large, oblong, conical, irregular;
suture indistinct; dark red with thick bloom; dots numerous, small; skin
thick, tough; flesh light yellow, very firm, meaty; fair to good; stone
long, pointed, early.

=Benedetto.= Domestica? Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889.

_Beni-Detto._

=Benedict.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 899. 1869.

Originated in Pennsylvania. Tree vigorous; fruit small, oval; suture
distinct; pale yellow, dotted and splashed with red on the sunny side;
bloom thin; flesh pale yellow, juicy, pleasant; good; clingstone.

=Beni Botan.= Triflora. =1.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =129=:111. 1901.

A variety imported by the Department of Agriculture.

=Benschoten.= Domestica.

Pits were left in the cellar of a Mr. Benschoten of Woodstock, Ulster
County, New York, by a German emigrant, and from them the above variety
was grown. Fruit above medium in size, oval, cream color, mottled with
crimson; flesh golden-yellow, sugary, aroma like that of an apricot;
season late.

=Benson.= Hortulana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 14. 1898. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
40. 1899. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 177. 1901. =4.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
422. 1905.

Moreman Prune 1. Benson Market 4.

Benson originated with Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska; was first
called Moreman Prune but was renamed and introduced by J. W. Kerr in
1898. Tree vigorous; fruit medium in size, roundish; cavity shallow;
stem slender; suture distinct; deep cherry-red, with numerous, yellowish
dots; bloom thin; flesh yellow; quality fair; stone medium in size, oval,
clinging; season late.

=Berlepsch.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:175. 1873. =2.= Mathieu
_Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889.

Berlepsch’s Grosse Grüne Reine-Claude 2. _Berlepchs Renclode Grosse
Grüne_ 1. _Grosse Reine-Claude de Berlepsch_ 2. Grosse Reine-Claude Verte
De Berlepsch 1.

A seedling raised by Liegel of Braunau, Germany. Tree vigorous, medium in
productiveness; fruit of the same flavor and quality as the Reine Claude,
of which it is probably a strain to be distinguished by earlier maturity,
slightly more depressed form and a paler-colored skin.

=Berlet Früh Damascene.= Domestica? Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422.
1889.

=Bernsteinzwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 351. 1895.

Ambre de Provence 2. _Ambre de Provence_ 1. _Bernsteinzwetsche_ 2.

Mentioned in the references cited without description.

=Berryhill.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

Originated with H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; introduced by F. W. Meneray,
Council Bluffs, Iowa. Tree productive; fruit large, red over a yellow
ground; skin thin, tender; flesh firm; good; clingstone.

=Berry Plum.= Species? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:78. 1892.

Mentioned as a variety growing on the grounds of the New York State
College of Agriculture.

=Best Black Blood.= Triflora. =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =59=:655 fig. 245. 1900.

Originated by Burbank and described by him as being productive and
vigorous; leaves resembling Simon; fruit large; flesh juicy and firm.

=Best of All.= Hortulana mineri × Triflora. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:7.
1898. =2.= _Rural N. Y._ =65=:730. 1906. Bestovall 1.

This is a seedling of Miner pollinated by Abundance originating with T.
V. Munson, Denison, Texas. Tree vigorous, prolific; fruit of medium size,
round, dark red; flesh firm, meaty; good; late.

=Beta.= Maritima. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1899-1900.

Selected from wild plants by E. W. Winsor of New York. Fruit yellow,
small and round; very prolific; early.

=Betterave.= Domestica. =1.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:496. 1860.

Tree large and vigorous; fruit large, round, pale yellow, juicy, not
pleasant.

=Beztercser Grosse Zwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422.
1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 352. 1895.

Mentioned in the preceding references; said to resemble Washington.

=Biconical.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:270. 1901.

A cross between Abundance and “a Chicasaw,” originating with A. L.
Bruce, Texas. Leaves Triflora-like with peculiar double, crenulate,
glandular margins. Fruit conical, of medium size; cavity shallow; suture
faint; skin thin; bright red; bloom moderate; flesh soft, yellow,
subacid; quality fair; stone medium in size, round-oval, clinging.

=Biery.= Triflora. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 45. 1895.

Received from California by J. J. Biery, Covington, Louisiana, wrongly
labeled Long Fruit. Fruit spherical, medium in size; cavity deep; suture
indistinct; color yellow, blushed with red, patched with russet and with
minute, russet dots, skin thin, separating easily from the tender, juicy,
yellow flesh; good; stone medium in size, oval, clinging; early.

=Big Rose.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Div. Pom. Bul._ =10=:21. 1901.

A variety of English origin introduced into Oregon about 1900.

=Bilona.= Triflora ×?

Bilona, as yet unintroduced, originated with H. A. Biles, Roanoke, Texas,
and is thought by F. T. Ramsey of Austin, Texas, to be a seedling of
Chabot probably crossed with some native variety. Tree resembles Chabot;
fruit red, coloring long before ripe; quality said to be very good.

=Bingham.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 27. 1828. =2.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:101. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 272. 1845. =4.=
_Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 87. 1854. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889.

Bingham’s Pflaume 5.

Originated in Pennsylvania. Fruit large, oval, yellow, occasionally with
carmine dots on the sunny exposure; suture distinct; cavity narrow and
deep; flesh yellowish, juicy, pleasant; good; clingstone; early; at one
time highly esteemed.

=Biondeck.= Domestica. =1.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 572. 1876. =2.= Lauche
_Deut. Pom._ 10, Pl. IV. 1882. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889.

Biondeck’s Frühzwetsche 1, 2, 3. _Biondeck’s rothe Frühzwetsche_ 2.
_Biondeck’s Rote Früh Zwetsche_ 3. _Précoce Biondeck_ 3. _Quetsche
Précoce de Biondeck_ 3.

Liegel produced this variety from a seed of Early Yellow and named it
after his friend Biondeck, of Baden, near Vienna. Tree large, productive;
fruit oval, medium, light red; flesh yellowish, sweet, highly flavored;
freestone; early; considered valuable for drying.

=Birchland.= Americana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:49. 1900.

A variety from Minnesota reported as unsatisfactory in British Columbia.

=Bittern.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 289. 1889. =2.= _U. S.
D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 25. 1894. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:182. 1897.

Biltern 3.

A seedling grown by Francis Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England. Tree
productive; fruit above medium or large, oval, purple, with a heavy
bloom; dots few, inconspicuous; skin thick, acid; flesh greenish-yellow,
firm, juicy, brisk subacid; good; stone long, of medium size, oval,
clinging; early.

=Bixby.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 436. 1888. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:262. 1892. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:29. 1897.

Found on the homestead of Rev. N. W. Bixby, Clayton County, Iowa, in
1847; introduced by C. H. True, Edgewood, Iowa, in 1880. Tree spreading,
vigorous; fruit large, roundish-oval; cavity narrow, shallow; suture a
line; apex rounded; yellow more or less covered with bright red; dots
numerous, small, yellow; skin thick, tender; flesh yellow, sweet but not
rich in flavor; good; stone large, flattened, clinging; mid-season.

=Black Arabka.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887. =2.= _Ia.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890.

_Tchernaya Arabskaya_ 1. _Mixed Arab_ 2. _Black Arab_ 2. _Black Prune_ 2.

One of the foreign varieties tested by the Iowa Agricultural College.

=Black Ball.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831.

=Black Damask.= Domestica. =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 1754. =2.= _Am.
Gard. Cal._ 587. 1806. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 374. 1857.

_Small Damas_ 1. Little Black Damask 1. Small Black Damask 2.

Black Damask has been confused by the old writers with the common Damson.
This plum is a Domestica with a sweet, pleasantly flavored flesh suitable
for dessert purposes and ripens much earlier than the Damson.

=Black Damask Hasting.= Insititia. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68. 1699.

Mentioned by Quintinye as having a “sharp and sourish taste.”

=Black Hawk.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =4=:95. 1889. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =63=:29. 1897. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1899. =4.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 143. 1901.

A wild variety found in Black Hawk County, Iowa. Tree hardy, vigorous,
and productive; fruit large, flattened, more convex on the ventral side;
suture distinct; deep red; skin thick, tough; flesh yellow, tender, rich;
good; stone free, mid-season; listed in the fruit catalog of the American
Pomological Society in 1899.

=Black Hill.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831.

Cultivated in the Gardens of the London Horticultural Society.

=Black Pear.= Domestica. =1.= Rea _Flora_ 208. 1676. =2.= Langley
_Pomona_ 96. 1729.

A variety of early European origin now obsolete. Fruit pear-shaped; skin
dark red or black; juicy when fully ripe.

=Black Perdrigon.= Domestica. =1.= Abercrombie _Gard. Ass’t_ 13. 1786.
=2.= Willich _Dom. Enc._ =4=:194. 1803.

Probably a strain of Blue Perdrigon.

=Black Prune.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Agr. Col. Bul._ 51. 1886. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890. =4.= _Ia.
Sta. Bul._ =31=:349. 1895.

Arab No. 1 (Budd unpublished). _Black Prune No._ 1 3. Black Prune No. 1
4. Black Vengerka 2. _Tchernaya vengerskaya_ 1, 2.

Black Prune was imported by J. L. Budd of the Iowa Experiment Station
from Dr. Regel, St. Petersburg, Russia, in 1881-2, under the name
“Tchernaya vengerskaya.” It was received at this Station for trial under
the name “Arab No. 1.” It is a small prune of fair quality when eaten out
of hand, but becomes sour in cooking.

=Black Prunella.= Domestica. =1.= Rea _Flora_ 207. 1676. =2.= Ray _Hist.
Plant._ 1529. 1688.

An old European plum. Fruit small, black and very sour; once valued in
England for preserves.

=Blaisdon.= Domestica. =1.= Watkins _Cat._ 1892?

Blaisdon’s Red 1.

Fruit medium in size, red; mid-season.

=Blaue Reine Claude.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 423.
1889.

_Liegel’s Blaue Reine Claude._ _Reine-Claude Bleue._ _Reine-Claude
Violette._ _Schwarze Reine-Claude._

=Blaugh.= Americana. =1.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =6=:46. 1899.

A vigorous variety which originated in the Allegheny Mountains. Fruit
above medium in size, light purple; bloom heavy; flesh yellow, juicy;
good; stone clinging; late; promising.

=Bleeker Large Red.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =1=:306. 1844.

Mrs. Bleeker’s Large Red 1.

Grown by a Mrs. Bleeker of New York from stones received from Germany.
Fruit large, bluish-red, melting and rich; mid-season. Downing gave
Bleecker’s Scarlet as a synonym of the Lombard, but he could not have had
this plum in mind.

=Bleue de Perse.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 423. 1889.

=Blood Plum.= Triflora. =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 54. 1892. =2.= _Ibid._
96. 1895.

Beni-Smono No. 3 ?1. Blood Plum No. 3 2.

Tree open, straggling, early blooming; fruit small; flesh deep red,
juicy, sweet; middle of July.

=Blubenthal.= Insititia? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 401. 1898.

Blubenthal Damson 1.

According to the preceding reference the largest of the Damsons. Fruit
heart-shaped, deep purple; bloom heavy; flesh green, juicy, sprightly;
mid-season.

=Blue Apricot.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:49.
1900.

Fruit above medium in size, roundish, flattened at the ends; suture well
defined; skin bluish-purple; dots few; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy,
sweet; stone small, roundish, free; early.

=Blue Egg.= Domestica. =1.= Lange _Allgem. Garten._ =2=:421. 1879. =2.=
Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 406. 1881. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422.
1889.

_Bamberger Eier Pflaume_ 3. Blaue Eierpflaume 2, 3. _Blaue Kaiser
Pflaume_ 3. _Dame-Aubert Rouge_ 3. _Eier Pflaume_ 3. _Grosse Blaue Eier
Pflaume_ 3. _Violette Kaiser Pflaume_ 3 incor.

A European variety similar to the German Prune. Tree large; fruit large,
obovate to oval; skin reddish-blue; flesh yellow, aromatically sweet;
freestone; mid-season.

=Blue Eye.= Domestica. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.

Mentioned as of German origin by J. W. Kerr, who obtained the variety
from Charles Luedloff, Carver, Minnesota.

=Blue Matchless.= Domestica. Mentioned in Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21.
1803.

=Bluemont.= Angustifolia watsoni. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 126. 1889.
=2.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 222. 1898.

Introduced by E. Gale of Manhattan, Kansas, about 1860. Fruit of medium
size, round, flattened, dull red with heavy bloom; flesh yellow, coarse;
flavor fair; clingstone; early.

=Blue Moldavka.= Domestica. =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc._ =1=:17, 74. 1894.
=2.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =31=:347. 1895. =3.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._ =101=:119, 120
fig. 1901. =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:306. 1903. =5.= _Can.
Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:38. 1903.

Moldavka 1, 3. Voronesh Blue 5.

Blue Moldavka was received from Russia by J. L. Budd of the Iowa
Experiment Station about 1882 in a lot of sprouts labeled Moldavka. Tree
hardy and productive; fruit large, oblong; suture a line; cavity of
medium size; stem short; dark purple; bloom thick; dots numerous, russet;
flesh greenish-yellow, firm, dry; flavor not high; quality fair; stone
semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Blue Plum.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =7=:404. 1852. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 900. 1869.

Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture obscure; skin dark blue
with light bloom; flesh yellowish-green, juicy, sweet and refreshing;
clingstone; early.

=Blue Primordian.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 575. 1629. =2.=
_Rea Flora_ 206. 1676.

An old variety of the same shape as the Red Primordian but smaller and of
a violet-blue color; of good taste; ripens early, productive.

=Blue Prolific.= Domestica. =1.= _Flor. and Pom._ 89. 1876. =2.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 722. 1884. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 156, 356. 1895.

_Blue Prolific_ 3. Fertile Bleue 3. _Rivers’ Blue Prolific_ 2. _Rivers
No._ 4 1.

Tree hardy, productive; fruit below medium in size, oval, slightly
narrowed at the stem end; cavity and suture shallow; dark purple,
with thin bloom; flesh dull greenish-yellow, juicy; flavor brisk and
agreeable; a cooking plum; stone clinging; ripens early.

=Blue Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Hoffy _Orch. Comp._ 2. 1842.

Hoffy published a colored engraving of this variety, but did not describe
it. Fruit long-oval; suture deep; dark blue.

=Blue Rock.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 423. 1903.

A seedling from Thomas Rivers, England. Tree upright, productive; fruit
of medium size, round; cavity small; suture distinct; dark purple; dots
small, gray; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, rich; clingstone; early.

=Blue Tweens.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =25=:204. 1870. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 52. 1871.

A seedling, raised by G. P. Peffer of Pewaukee, Wisconsin, about 1855.
Tree hardy, slow in growth; fruit in pairs, giving rise to the name;
flesh yellowish-green, adhering to the stone on one side; flavor
sprightly subacid; late.

=Blue Violet.= Domestica. Mentioned in Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1528. 1688.

=Blum.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ 3d Ser. =8=:280 fig. 1860. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 900. 1869.

A seedling from North Carolina resembling Nelson’s Victory in color and
shape. Size above medium, oval, dull orange with numerous small brown
dots; flesh yellowish-brown, juicy; good; early.

=Bohemian Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.

Introduced by J. W. Kerr, who secured plants from Charles Luedloff,
Carver, Minnesota. Tree upright, vigorous, productive; fruit large,
roundish-oval, dark purple; good.

=Bomberger.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=87=:12. 1901.

A variety grown by H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa, from seed of Harrison;
first fruited in 1897. Tree upright, vigorous, productive; fruit large,
roundish; suture faint; yellow overlaid with red; flesh tender, sweet,
rich; good; stone round, smooth, abruptly pointed; mid-season.

=Bongoume.= Triflora. =1.= Normand _Cat._ 1891.

Sold by J. L. Normand, Marksville, Louisiana, as a Japanese plum
resembling an apricot.

=Bonne Bouche.= Domestica. =1.= Thompson _Gard, Ass’t_ =4=:156. 1901.

Of French origin. Fruit medium, greenish-yellow; flesh golden-yellow,
tender, juicy; flavor delicious; mid-season; valuable for dessert.

=Bonne de Bry.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:50.
1900. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 480. 1904. =3.= _Soc. Nat. Hort. France
Pom._ 526 fig. 1904.

Originated in the valley of the Marne near Bry-sur-Marne, France. Tree
vigorous; fruit below medium, globular; suture shallow; skin dark purple;
heavy bloom; flesh greenish, juicy, sweet, tender; good for canning;
stone very small; very early.

=Bonnemain de la Digue.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 423. 1889.

Found in the reference given above and in _Journal de la Societe
Nationale et Centrale d’Horticulture de France_ 562. 1875.

=Bonne Rouge.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831.

=Bonnet d’Eveque.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 353. 1866. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 900. 1869. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889.
=4.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 352. 1895.

Bischofsmütze 3. _Bonnet d’Eveque_ 3. _Die Bischofsmütze_ 4.

Tree vigorous, upright; fruit medium, obovate, dark purple; flesh rich;
freestone; good; late.

=Bossland.= Hortulana mineri × (Domestica? × Hortulana). =1.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:263. 1900.

A cross between Miner and a seedling of Quackenboss and Wayland,
originating with Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska, in 1893. Tree
vigorous, spreading; fruit medium, dark red; flesh coarse, dry; stone
semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Boulouf.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 901. 1869. =2.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 688. 1884. =3.= _N. Y. Sta. An. Rpt._ =15=:291. 1896.

Bouloff 3.

Large, roundish-oval; suture a line; stem short and thick; red covered
with thick bloom; dots brownish; flesh yellow, juicy and sweet; good.

=Bouncer.= Americana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:29. 1903.

A seedling of Yosemite Purple grown at the Central Experimental Farm,
Ottawa, about 1900. Fruit large, roundish; suture a line; uniform deep
purplish-red; dots numerous, yellow, distinct; moderate bloom; flesh deep
yellow, juicy, sweet and rich; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Bower.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 122. 1860. =2.= _Gard.
Mon._ =3=:314. 1861.

Bower’s Gage 1, 2.

A seedling raised by a Mr. Bower of Philadelphia about 1850. Tree lacking
in vigor; fruit oblong, yellow, like Lawrence; probably of Reine Claude
parentage; good.

=Bowle.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 207. 1676.

_Bole_ 2.

Described by Rea as of “middle size, black, flat on one side and well
tasted.”

=Brackett.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

One of H. A. Terry’s varieties coming from a seed of Harrison. Tree
strong, upright and productive; fruit large, pale yellow overspread with
dark red; flesh yellow, firm; good; stone semi-clinging.

=Brahy.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 353. 1866. =2.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 901. 1869. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 445. 1889.

Brahy’s Green Gage 1, 2. _Brahy’s Green Gage_ 3. _Reine-Claude de Brahy_
1, 2, 3. Reine-Claude von Brahy 3.

Supposed to have been raised by M. Brahay Eckenholm, at Herstal,
near Liege, Belgium. Fruit very large, round; suture distinct; skin
yellowish-green, with fine bloom; flesh rich yellow, tender, juicy, very
rich flavor; mid-season; a trifle later than Reine Claude, which it
otherwise resembles.

=Brainerd.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:36. 1892. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 144. 1901.

_Brainerd’s Best_ 2.

A wild variety found in Ramsay County, Minnesota, prior to 1884. Fruit
small; poor; worthless.

=Brandon Ruby.= Nigra. Mentioned in _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:39. 1903.

=Brandy Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 371. 1866. =2.= Fell
_Cat._ 1893. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 352. 1895. =4.= _Garden_ =62=:433.
1902.

_Impériale de Mann_ 3. _Mann’s Imperial_ 1, 3. _Mann’s Brandy Gage_ 1, 3.

A variety of European origin resembling a small Golden Drop. Fruit small,
yellow, with heavy bloom; flesh melting and sweet; good; early.

=Brant of Naples.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort. Soc. An. Rpt._ =19=:253.
1896.

Mentioned as hardy. This variety may be the same as Beauty of Naples.

=Brauman.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 547. 1901.

An unproductive German variety. Fruit medium in size, globular; stem
short; suture a line; skin greenish-yellow; flesh green, coarse, dry,
sweet, pleasant; stone clinging; early.

=Braunauer Damascenenartige Pflaume.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 423. 1889.

=Breck.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:7. 1898. =2.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 204. 1901.

First offered for sale in 1899 by F. T. Ramsey of Austin, Texas. Fruit
oblong or slightly conical, medium in size; stem short; suture lacking;
bright red, indistinctly striped; dots many, small, white, inconspicuous;
bloom light; flesh red, fibrous; clingstone; much like Wild Goose, but
somewhat firmer.

=Brevoort Purple.= Domestica. =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 203. 1835. =2.=
_Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 222, 244. 1858. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 901.
1869. =4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448. 1889.

_Brevoorfs Purple_ 4. Brevoort’s Purple Bolmar 1. _Brevoort’s Purple
Washington_ 1, 3, 4. Brevorts 2. Brevort’s Purple 3. _Brevort’s Purple_
4. _Brevorts’ Purple Bolmar_ 4. _Brevorts Purple Bolmar_ 3. _New York
Purple_ 3, 4. Rote Washington 4. _Rouge de Brevoort_ 4. Washington 4.
_Washington Purple_ 3, 4.

A seedling grown by Henry Brevoort of New York from a stone of Washington
planted in 1819. Fruit large, oval; suture distinct at the base;
skin reddish-purple; flesh yellow, soft, juicy, vinous; clingstone;
mid-season; rejected by the American Pomological Society.

=Briancon.= Domestica? =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831. =2.=
Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:105. 1832. =3.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1. 1846.

De Briançon 1, 3. _Prune de Briancon_ 3. _Prune de Brigantiaca_ 2, 3.

A variety indigenous to the Alps in southeastern France. Trees grow to
the height of eight or ten feet; fruit small, nearly round, smooth,
yellow, with reddish tinge; flesh yellow; freestone. The stone contains a
bitter kernel, from which is extracted a valuable oil. Prince considered
the tree a hybrid between the plum and the apricot.

=Brignole.= Domestica. =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 3. 1754. =2.= Knoop
_Fructologie_ =2=:55. 1771. =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 151. 1831. =4.=
Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:67. 1832. =5.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
295, 383. 1846.

Prune de Brignole 1. _Brignole Plum_ 1. Brignole Jaune 2. Perdrigon de
Brignole Gros 3. _Perdrigon de Brignole_ ?4. _Brignole Jaune_ 5. _Prune
de Brignole_ 5.

The Brignole plum is named from Brignoles, a town in France where it is
used with the White Perdrigon for the famous Brignoles Prunes. Duhamel
and several others have confused the two varieties but they seem to be
distinct. The Brignole is larger, its skin less tough, flesh more yellow
and the season later than White Perdrigon.

=Brignole Violette.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:55. 1771.
=2.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 69. 1699. =3.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort.
Rpt._ 107. 1891.

_Brugnole_ 2. _Brignole_ 2. Brignole 3.

This seems to be a purple strain of the Brignole which has found its way
into California. Fruit oval, medium in size, violet; dots light yellow,
yellow spots on the sunny side; flesh greenish-yellow, tender, juicy,
sweet; freestone; best adapted to a warm climate.

=Brill.= Cerasifera. =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:305. 1875. =2.= _Vt. Sta. An.
Rpt._ =13=:368. 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 230. 1901. =4.= _Ga. Sta.
Bul._ =67=:272. 1904.

This plum is thought to have originated in Mississippi and was introduced
by J. T. Whitaker, Tyler, Texas. Tree vigorous, with an upright-spreading
habit; fruit small, round; cavity broad, shallow; stem long, slender;
suture a line; bright red with yellow dots; bloom thin; skin thin; flesh
yellow, soft, juicy; quality fair; stone small, clinging; early; listed
in the American Pomological Society catalog of fruits for 1875 but
removed in 1883.

=Bristol.= Domestica. =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 212. 1904.

Bristol, as tested in Illinois, is very similar to, if not identical with
the Lombard.

=Briton Seedling.= Domestica. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 92, 1885.

An unproductive seedling of Canadian origin. Fruit of medium size, very
dark blue; bloom heavy; flesh greenish, firm, juicy, sweet and pleasant;
late.

=Brittlewood.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:30. 1897. =2.= _U.
S. D. A. Yearbook_ 477, 478, Pl. LXII. 1902.

_Brittlewood No._ 1 2.

Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska, grew this variety from seed of
Quaker pollinated by Harrison. Tree large, vigorous, spreading; fruit
large, nearly round, symmetrical; cavity small, shallow; stem medium;
suture shallow; dark red when fully ripe; dots numerous, small; bloom
thick; skin thick, tenacious; flesh yellowish, meaty, juicy, mild
subacid, rich; good; stone oval, large, clinging; mid-season.

=Brittlewood No. 3.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 5. 1898.

From the same source as Brittlewood but from the reciprocal cross. The
two varieties are similar in all respects except that Brittlewood No. 3
is about a week earlier.

=Britzer Egg.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 548. 1901.

Originated in Germany. Tree productive; fruit below medium size,
egg-shaped; stem short; suture wide, shallow; yellow; bloom thin; flesh
yellow, juicy, sweet, pleasant; stone large, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Brock.= Species? =1.= _Can. Hort._ =18=:350. 1895.

General Brock 1.

A seedling grown by J. K. Gordon of Whitby, Ontario. Said to be early and
attractive.

=Brodie.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:33. 1903.

A seedling tree known in the family of R. Brodie, Montreal, Quebec,
for three generations. Fruit below medium, almost round, dark purple;
dots obscure; suture a line; flesh greenish-yellow, sweet, rich; good;
mid-season.

=Brompton.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831.

An old variety formerly much used as a stock.

=Brooklyn.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

A seedling of Harrison grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa. Tree
vigorous, spreading, productive; fruit large, oblong, dark red over a
yellow ground; flesh firm, yellow; good; stone semi-clinging.

=Brunner Zwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424. 1889.

Undescribed by Mathieu who took the name from _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_
286. 1884.

=Brunswick.= Munsoniana. =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 44. 1893. =2.= Budd-Hansen
_Am. Hort. Man._ 294. 1903. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:245, 254, 255.
1905.

According to the Lovett Nursery Company, this plum originated in Missouri
and was introduced by them. Fruit above medium, roundish-oval; stem of
medium length, slender; bright red on a yellowish ground; flesh yellow,
meaty, sweet; good; early.

=Brussels.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831.

=Bryan.= Americana. =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 144. 1901.

_W. J. Bryan_ 1. _Colonel Bryan_ 1.

One of H. A. Terry’s numerous seedlings which fruited first in 1896.
Fruit large, oblong, rich, dark red; flesh firm; good.

=Buchanan.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831.

=Buchner Konigspflaume.= Domestica. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424.
1889. _Braunauer Königs Pflaume. Braunauer Violetter Perdrigon. Royale de
Braunau._

=Budd.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

_Prof. Budd_ 1.

Originated with H. A. Terry of Iowa and first fruited in 1897. Tree
upright, productive; fruit large, bright red, with numerous white dots;
flesh firm; good; mid-season.

=Buel.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 272. 1845. =2.= _Ann.
Pom. Belge_ =8=:59, Pl. 1860. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424. 1889.

Buel’s Favorite 1. Buel’s Liebling’s Zwetsche 3. Buel’s Favorite 3.
_Favorite de Buel_ 3. Prune Buel’s Favorite 2.

Raised about 1840 by Isaac Denniston of Albany and named after the
distinguished agriculturist, Judge Buel. Fruit large, ovate, broadest
toward the stem; stalk long and thick; pale green, thickly sprinkled with
lighter dots and speckled red near the stalk; flesh greenish-yellow,
firm, juicy and rich; good; stone nearly free; mid-season.

=Buffalo Bill.= Species? =1.= Letter from F. T. Ramsey.

Selected from the wild plums of Texas.

=Buhl-Eltershofen.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424. 1889.

_Buhl-Eltershofen Zwetsche._

=Buhler.= Domestica. =1.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 473. 1894.

Buhler’s Early Prune 1.

Fruit of medium size, egg-shaped, beautiful blue; table and market plum;
early.

=Bulah No. 4.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:263. 1900.

A seedling from a Miner tree pollinated by wild plums, from J. F. Wagner,
Bennett, Cedar County, Iowa, in 1894. Fruit medium to large, dark red;
late.

=Bullman.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 464. 1900.

A vigorous variety from Germany. Fruit above medium, oval; suture deep;
sides unequal; yellow with red dots; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet,
pleasant; freestone; early.

=Bulgaria.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424. 1889.

Mathieu refers this variety to _Pomologische Monatshetfe_ 323. 1887.

=Bulgarian.= Domestica. =1.= _Cal. Sta. Bd. Hort._ 292. 1885-6. =2.=
_Ibid._ 107 fig. 1891. =3.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 357. 1891. =4.= _N.
Mex. Sta. Bul._ =27=:126. 1898.

Belgarian Prune 1.

A variety grown chiefly in the vicinity of Haywards, Alameda County,
California, for drying. Tree vigorous, bears early and regularly,
productive; fruit above medium, roundish-obovate, having a short neck;
suture shallow; apex slightly compressed; stem slender, one inch long;
cavity narrow and shallow; dark purple; flesh greenish-yellow, sweet and
rich with a pleasant flavor; good; stone semi-clinging; season early.

=Bullock.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 69. 1699.

Bullock’s Heart 1.

Described as an “extream large plum.”

=Bull Plum.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68. 1699.

Mentioned by Quintinye as a “dry plum.”

=Bunker Hill.= Domestica. =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 196. 1891. =2.= _Me.
Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=: 64. 1896. =3.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =134=:41. 1902.

_Plattman’s Bunker Hill_ 1.

Originated at the Yates County Nurseries near Seneca Lake, New York, by
J. H. Plattman, from a seed of a plum which grew near a Washington and
a Reine Claude. Tree upright, vigorous and productive; fruit medium to
large, blue; good; mid-season.

=Bunte Fruh Pflaume.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424.
1889.

=Bunter Perdrigon.= Domestica. =1.= Lange _Allgem. Garten._ =2=:419.
1879. =2.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ 18, Pl. 4. 1882. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
424. 1889.

_Der Bunter Perdrigon_ 2. _Perdrigon Bariole_ 3.

A European variety called Bunter because of its variegated colored fruit.
Tree large; fruit medium, violet-blue on the sunny side, red and green
on the shaded side; flesh greenish, juicy, sprightly; quality fair;
freestone; recommended for table and drying purposes in Germany.

=Burbank First.= Triflora. =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =65=:730. 1906.

Burbank’s First 1.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit small, red and yellow; early; inferior.

=Burbank No. 1.= Triflora. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:22. 1894.

One of Burbank’s seedlings said to resemble Berckmans.

=Burbank No. 7.= Triflora × Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:52.
1895. =2.= _Ibid._ =169=:249. 1899.

Tree vigorous, round-topped, branches upright; fruit roundish-ovate;
cavity narrow, deep, suture broad, shallow; greenish-yellow; flesh
pale yellow, sweet, juicy, sprightly, highly flavored; stone turgid,
roundish-oval, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Burbank No. 11.= Triflora × Domestica? =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =129=:32,
34. 1896.

Both tree and fruit give indications of an admixture of Domestica. Tree
not productive; fruit large; flavor good.

=Burbank × Redick.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 228.
1909.

A hybrid from Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska, published in the
preceding reference under the name of its parents. It resembles the
Burbank very closely and is said to be somewhat more hardy than that
variety but inferior in quality.

=Burchardt Gelbe Fruh Zwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424.
1889.

Listed by Mathieu from _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 286. 1884.

=Burettes.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 374. 1857. =2.= _Ann.
Pom. Belge_ =5=:47, Pl. 1857. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:115. 1866-73.

Burrettes 1. Des Burettes 3. Prune Des Burettes 2.

Originated by M. Gregoire of Burrettes, Belgium, and first reported in
1849. Tree vigorous, hardy; fruit large, irregularly oval; suture faint;
dull greenish-yellow with rose-purple on the sunny exposure; flesh green,
fine, melting; juice abundant, sweet, agreeably aromatic; good; freestone.

=Burford.= Triflora × Munsoniana. =1.= Munson _Cat._ 1906-7.

A seedling of Burbank crossed with Clifford from T. V. Munson, Denison,
Texas. Tree weeping; branches more slender than those of Burbank; fruit
large, round, light, bright red; stone small.

=Burgundy Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 374. 1857. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424. 1889. =3.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 357. 1891.

Burgunder Zwetsche 2. _Prune de Bourgoyne_ 1, 2. _Burgundy Prune_ 2.
Susina Torla d’ Nova di Borgogna 2 incor.

Fruit medium, egg-shaped with a neck; suture indistinct; reddish-black;
dots minute, numerous; flesh juicy, sugary, pleasant; freestone;
mid-season.

=Burlington Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Goodrich _N. Fr. Cult._ 83. 1849. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 902. 1869.

Raised from seed of some unknown “Blue Gage,” brought from Connecticut
about 1800, and planted by Mrs. Ozias Buel of Burlington, Vermont. Tree
hardy, vigorous, productive; fruit medium in size, roundish-oval, dark
purplish-blue, with abundant bloom; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, rich;
freestone; early; formerly considered valuable.

=Burnet.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831. =2.= _Mag.
Hort._ =9=:163. 1843.

Fruit small, roundish, purple; freestone; mid-season; similar to Wine
Sour.

=Bursoto.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =10=:106. 1897.
=2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 144. 1901.

A hybrid of Burbank with De Soto, grown and named by Theodore Williams
of Benson, Nebraska, about 1890. Tree of the Americana type; fruit
large, oblique, oval; cavity lacking; stem short, thick; light red and
yellow; dots small, white; skin thick; flesh yellow, juicy; good; stone
semi-clinging; early.

=Byefield.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 272. 1845.

Fruit small, round; suture a line; light yellow, with red spots around
the stem; flesh yellow; clingstone; good; early; rejected by the American
Pomological Society in 1888.

=Caddo Chief.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 162.
1881. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:60, 86. 1892. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._
=32=:479. 1894. =4.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =27=:124. 1898. =5.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 193. 1901.

Found wild in Caddo Parish, Louisiana, and introduced by G. W. Stones,
Shreveport, Louisiana. It is favorably reported from the South but not
generally recommended, although the American Pomological Society included
it in their catalog of fruits in 1897. Tree low-branching, hardy and
productive; fruit of medium size, roundish-oblong; suture shallow; cavity
medium deep; skin thick, tough; bright red; flesh reddish-yellow, firm,
sweet and juicy; poor; stone large, round, clinging; season early.

=Caldwell Golden Drop.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 902. 1869.

Caldwell’s Golden Drop 1.

Possibly an American strain of the Golden Drop. Fruit large, oval, sides
often unequal; suture distinct; yellow marbled with crimson in the sun,
with thin bloom; stem slender; cavity small; flesh yellow, juicy, sugary,
rich; good; clingstone; early.

=Caldwell White Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 903. 1869.

Caldwell’s White Gage 1.

A productive variety of American origin. Fruit of medium size,
oval, narrowing slightly at the apex; suture shallow; apex pointed;
greenish-yellow, dotted with purple in the sun; bloom thick; stem
long; flesh greenish-yellow, coarse, juicy, sugary; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=California.= Americana, =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
145. 1901.

_California Seedling_ 2. Cal. Seedling 1.

Fruit of medium size, slightly oblate; cavity medium deep, flaring; stem
long; suture a line; bright red; dots many, minute; skin thick, tough;
flesh yellow; good; stone roundish, flattened, clinging; mid-season.

=Cambell.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 903. 1869.

_Cambell’s Seedling_ 1. _McCauley’s Seedling_ 1.

Fruit large, oval; suture shallow; pale yellow, splashed with green,
dotted and marbled with crimson in the sun; bloom light; cavity small;
flesh pale yellow, coarse, juicy, sweet; good; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Campbell.= Species? =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =25=:49, 83. 1883.

A seedling found growing on a Mr. Campbell’s farm near Abingdon,
Virginia. Very late and a long keeper.

=Canada Blue.= Domestica. =1.= Lutts _Cat._ 1890?

Mentioned as a “small, round, early, blue plum, very productive and
excellent for preserving.”

=Canada Orleans.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd App. 180.
1881. =2.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 466. 1883. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
=131=:183. 1897.

_Canada Egg_ ?1. Canada Egg 2.

Probably originated in the vicinity of Hamilton, Ontario, where it is
chiefly grown. Fruit medium to large, reddish-purple, with heavy bloom;
flesh yellow, juicy, melting, sweet, rich; early.

=Canadian Apricot.= Nigra.

The common wild plum of Canada.

=Candelaria.= Domestica. =1.= Clarke _Prune Industry_ 41. 1893.

Candelaria Prune 1.

About 1881 W. B. Simpson discovered that a supposed Golden Drop tree
on the farm of S. A. Clarke, Salem, Oregon, was not true to name. It
seemed of value and was named Candelaria from the name of the farm. Fruit
large, yellow; flesh solid, subacid; very good; has not been extensively
propagated.

=Caper.= Triflora × Cerasifera? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:221. 1899.

Grown between 1890 and 1895 by J. S. Breece, of North Carolina. Waugh
states that the fruit and foliage suggest the species mentioned above.
Fruit of medium size, oval; cavity shallow; dark red; dots many, minute;
skin thick, tough; flesh firm, red, sprightly, subacid; fair in quality;
stone large, turgid, clinging.

=Capitaine Kirchhof.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 424, 434. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 161, 353. 1895.

_Capitaine Kirckhof_ 1. _Capitaine Kirckkof_ 2. _Hauptmann Kirchhof’s
Pflaume_ 1, 2. _Kirchhof’s Pflaume_ 1, 2. _Prune de Kirchhof_ 1.

Found by M. Oberdieck of Schaferhof on the estate of a Captain Kirchhof
near Nienburg (Hanover). Tree productive; fruit of medium size, round,
purplish-brown; bloom thick; flesh yellow, fine, juicy; sweet, aromatic;
good; late.

=Captain.= Hortulana? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=11=:283. 1898.

Columbia 1. _Columbia_ 2.

Introduced about 1892 by A. M. Ramsey and Son of Austin, Texas, under the
name Columbia but changed by Waugh in 1898 to Captain to avoid confusion
with an older Columbia. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit medium in
size, spherical, bright golden-yellow; dots many, conspicuous, whitish;
suture a line; skin thin, tough; flesh firm, yellow; good; stone small,
clinging; late.

=Capt. Bacon.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

A seedling of Weaver grown by H. A. Terry. Tree vigorous; fruit large,
red over yellow; flesh yellow, coarse, rich; freestone; a culinary
variety.

=Capt. Watrous.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

A seedling of Harrison grown by H. A. Terry who plucked the first fruit
in 1897. Tree vigorous and productive; fruit large, roundish, yellow
overspread with bright red; good.

=Caro.= Americana mollis. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:29, 38. 1903.

A seedling of Wolf which originated at the Central Experimental Farm,
Ottawa, Canada, in 1895. Fruit large, roundish; suture distinct; bright
red, showing yellow in patches; dots numerous, yellow, distinct;
bloom light; skin thick; flesh deep yellow, juicy, sweet, rich; good;
mid-season.

=Caroline.= Americana? =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 412. 1899. =2.= _S.
Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:11. 1905.

A seedling grown by C. W. H. Heideman, New Ulm, Minnesota. Fruit of
medium size, yellowish-red; good; season of Forest Garden; subject to
plum-pocket and unproductive.

=Carpenter.= Species? =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:11. 1905.

A seedling from Vermilion, South Dakota.

=Carson.= Domestica.

According to a letter from G. B. Brackett of the United States Department
of Agriculture, Carson is a strain of Lombard.

=Carstesen.= Nigra. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:29. 1903.

A seedling grown by H. P. Carstesen, Billings Bridge, Ontario. Tree
vigorous, productive; fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity narrow;
suture obscure; apex rounded; yellow, nearly covered with deep red; dots
obscure; bloomless; skin thin, tender; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; good;
stone flat, roundish, nearly free; early.

=Carver.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1896-1900. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
145. 1901.

Introduced by Charles Luedloff, Cologne, Minnesota. Fruit small,
roundish-oval; cavity shallow; stem slender; suture a line; red,
sometimes mottled; dots many, small; skin tough; flesh yellow; quality
fair; clingstone; late; unpromising.

=Catalano.= Domestica. =1.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl. 1839.

Susino Catalano 1. _Prunus Catalanica_ 1. _Catalana-Susina_ 1. _Catelane_
1.

This Italian variety is much larger than the Early Yellow, known also as
the Catalonia. They may be related, however, for Gallesio says that there
are many varieties from Catalonia which are similar in shape and taste.
Fruit large, oblong, slightly necked; skin greenish and greasy; pulp
green, soft, tender, juicy and pleasant.

=Catalana Propria.= Domestica. =1.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl. 1839.

_Catalana Toscana_ 1.

A good strain of Catalano grown in Italy.

=Catelano Giallo.= Domestica. =1.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl. 1839.

Buon-Boccone 1. Buon-Bocconi 1.

This variety is figured under the name Buon-Boccone and described under
Catelano Giallo. As early as 1839 it was well known in parts of Italy
and was then ranked next to the Reine Claude in quality. Fruit large,
oval, dull yellow, tinged with red; pulp yellow, tender, sweet and highly
flavored.

=Catelano Violaceo.= Domestica. =1.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl. 1839.

Catelana Morella? 1. Susina Vecchietti 1. Susino Vecchietti 1.

Gallesio described this plum as a strain of the Catelano and adds that
it is grown in abundance at Florence. Tree medium in size; fruit large,
oval; suture distinct; violet; pulp yellowish, tender, juicy, sweet and
highly flavored.

=Catherine.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:50. 1900.

Tree strong, moderately productive; fruit above medium size, egg-shaped;
suture a line; cavity small; reddish-purple; bloom thin; flesh
greenish-yellow, firm, juicy, sweet; pleasant; good; stone large,
clinging; mid-season.

=Cel.= Cerasifera × (Triflora × Simonii). =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:8.
1898.

Originated and named by Luther Burbank, who states that it is a cross
between Myrobalan and Wickson. Fruit of medium size, egg-shaped; cavity
rounded; suture indistinct; apex pointed; bright, transparent yellow;
flavor resembling the Americanas; good; stone of medium size, clinging.

=Centennial.= Species? =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 308. 1884.

Originated in 1877 by George U. Oberholtzer, Sioux City, Iowa. Fruit of
medium size; skin firm; good; ten days later than Miner.

=Centralia.= Domestica. =1.= Wild Bros. _Cat._ 1892? =2.= _Can. Exp. Farm
Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:50. 1900.

A vigorous variety from J. B. Webster of Centralia, Illinois.

=Cerney Perdrigon.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 69. 1699. =2.=
Langley _Pomona_ 93, 97. 1729.

Cernay Perdrigon 2.

A variety long since obsolete. Fruit roundish, slightly flattened, red;
good.

=Ceur de Beuf.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 69. 1699.

Mentioned by Quintinye in 1699 as a violet-red plum. Its relationship to
Coeur de Boeuf is unknown.

=Chabot Blood.= Triflora × Simonii. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:49.
1896.

Fruit of medium size, dull red or cinnabar; flesh firm, brick red, very
juicy, sweet, aromatic; late.

=Champion.= Americana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891. =2.= Terry
_Cat._ 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 145 fig. 1901.

A seedling of Hawkeye grown by H. A. Terry; first fruited in 1891. Fruit
large, roundish; suture a line; red over yellow; dots many, conspicuous;
skin firm; flesh yellow, firm; flavor not high; quality fair; stone
large, oval, flattened, clinging; late.

=Chancellor Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831.

Fruit of medium size, round, yellow; quality fair; a table plum.

=Chapin.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 903. 1869.

Grown by Aaron Chapin, Hartford, Connecticut. Tree vigorous; fruit of
medium size, oval; suture shallow; stem long, slender; cavity deep; light
reddish-purple; flesh yellow, juicy, vinous; good; semi-clinging; late.

=Chariot.= Species? =1.= Harrison _Cat._ 1897.

Probably misnamed.

=Charity Clark.= Munsoniana × _Prunus persica_. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._
=38=:77. 1892.

Blackman 1.

For a history of this variety see Blackman.

=Charlotte.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 25. 1828. =2.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:59. 1832.

Tomlinson’s Charlotte 1, 2. _Charlotte_ 2.

Prince says this is “a seedling of Yellow Egg raised by Judge Tomlinson.”
Tree very vigorous; fruit shaped like its parent, yellow; flesh sweet
with an agreeable flavor; early.

=Charmer.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory,
Canada. Fruit large, red, bitter; early.

=Chautauqua.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:38. 1903.

A variety grown on the Experimental Farm at Ottawa, Canada.

=Chauviere.= Domestica. =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 535. 1891.

Reine-Claude Chauviere 1. _Belle de Doue_ 1 incor.

Grown by M. Chauviere, a Frenchman, who had purchased it under the
false name of Belle de Doue. Trees variable in productiveness;
fruit roundish-oblate; suture shallow; skin changes from marbled
greenish-yellow to dark red, dotted and stained with cinnabar-red; flesh
yellowish-green, soft, juicy, honey-like, very agreeable; clingstone.

=Cheresoto.= _Prunus besseyi_ × Americana. _Cir. S. Dak. Exp. Sta._ 1910.

Cheresoto originated with N. E. Hansen of the South Dakota Experiment
Station as a result of a cross of _Prunus besseyi_ with De Soto. After
fruiting for one year it was introduced in 1910. Fruit small, oval; apex
pointed; black; bloom heavy; flesh yellowish-green, sprightly; clingstone.

=Cherokee.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:78. 1892. 2. Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 145. 1901.

Said to have been found wild in Kansas. Fruit medium in size,
roundish-oblong; skin blotched red, thick; clingstone.

=Cherry.= Nigra. =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 186. 1885. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:264. 1900.

Found wild near Chaseburg, Vernon County, Wisconsin, in 1870 by E.
Markle of LaCrosse, Wisconsin; introduced by the discoverer. Tree hardy,
productive, an early bearer; fruit resembles that of De Soto except that
it is larger and about twenty days earlier in ripening.

=Chester.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 547. 1901.

An unimportant seedling from the British Columbia Experiment Station not
to be confused with the Chester of Forsyth. Tree vigorous, unproductive;
fruit medium in size, obovate; cavity narrow, deep; suture shallow;
reddish-pink with numerous golden dots; flesh firm, juicy, sprightly,
slightly coarse; stone large, clinging; mid-season.

=Chester.= Domestica. =1.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 20. 1803.

Mentioned by Forsyth as very productive; fruit rich; season late.

=Chester County Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 903. 1869.

From Chester County, Pennsylvania. Tree vigorous; branches slender;
fruit of medium size, oval; suture faint; cavity small; stem long,
slender; black with thick bloom; flesh greenish, sweet; good; freestone;
mid-season.

=Chestnut.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831.

Fruit purple, oblong; size and quality medium; clingstone; a table plum.

=Chicrigland.= Species? =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:9. 1898. =2.= _Vt. Sta.
An. Rpt._ =14=:270. 1901.

Grown by T. V. Munson, from seed of a plum grown by F. T. Ramsey,
Lampasas County, Texas. Tree vigorous; branches zigzag, drooping; fruit
oval, small; cavity of medium depth, rounded; suture faint; dull red
over yellow; surface a trifle fuzzy; dots many; bloom heavy; skin thin,
tender, not astringent; flesh soft, yellow, mild acid, aromatic; quality
fair; stone clinging.

=Chinook.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at the Experimental Farm, Indian Head, Northwest
Territory, Canada. Fruit of medium size, red; early.

=Chippewa.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 85. 1890. =2.= _Cornell
Sta. Bul._ =38=:37. 1892. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =31=:346. 1895.

Chippeway 2.

A dwarf variety from Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, often bearing when only
two feet in height. Fruit small, deep red; skin medium thick; flesh firm,
sweet; stone free, small, pointed, rough; worthless.

=Choptank.= Munsoniana. =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 133. 1893. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Cat._ 40. 1899. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:154. 1899. =4.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 184. 1901.

A seedling of Wild Goose grown by J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland;
introduced in 1893; listed in the American Pomological Society
catalog of fruits in 1899. Tree vigorous, prolific and hardy; foliage
large, ornamental; fruit above medium to large, variable in shape,
roundish-oblong to oval; cavity shallow; stem long; suture distinct; skin
thin, tough; bright red; dots numerous, light colored; bloom thin; flesh
yellow, firm, rather acid but of good quality; stone medium in size,
oval, flattened, clinging; medium early.

=Christian.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 209. 1676.

_Nutmeg_ 1, 2.

Shrubby in growth; fruit small, dark red; late; obsolete.

=Christie.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:264. 1900. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 145. 1901.

Taken from the woods by W. Christie, Villisca, Iowa, in 1887. Fruit
round, truncate, medium in size; apex flattened; cavity wide; suture
lacking; yellow, covered with red; bloom light; skin thick; flesh yellow,
melting, flavor sweet, luscious; very good; stone circular, thick,
semi-clinging.

=Churchill.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:611. 1893.

A seedling found by G. W. Churchill on the shores of Lake Cayuga. Fruit
large, blue; quality poor; not valuable.

=Chypre.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:82. 1768. =2.=
Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:37, Tab. 187 fig. 2. 1796. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._
=2=:96. 1832. =4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 690. 1884.

Cyprian 3. Die Pflaume aus Cypern 2. _De Chypre_ 3. De Chypre 4. Prune de
Chypre 1. _Prune de Chypre_ 2, 3.

Chypre is an old variety of unknown origin. Fruit of medium size, round;
suture shallow; cavity large; purple; bloom thick; flesh firm, greenish,
sweet when fully ripe; quality fair; stone clinging; early.

=Cinnamon.= Domestica. =1.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ 2. 1688.

An old and unimportant variety now obsolete.

=Cistena.= Prunus besseyi × Cerasifera. _Cir. S. Dak. Exp. Sta._ 1910.

Introduced in 1909 by the originator, N. E. Hansen of South Dakota
Experiment Station. It shows the glossy, purple foliage of the Pissardi
plum, one of its parents, and may be of some value as an ornamental.

=City.= Americana. =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 128. 1890. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =63=:32. 1897. =3.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 144. 1901. =4.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 146. 1901.

This variety came from the seed of a wild plum growing one-half mile from
Springfield, Minnesota; introduced by H. Knudson in 1890. Tree upright
when young but with a weeping tendency when older, vigorous, hardy and
productive; fruit large, nearly round; cavity of medium width, deep;
suture a distinct line; dark dull red over yellow; dots numerous, small,
yellow, distinct; bloom heavy; skin thick, tough, slightly astringent;
flesh yellow, firm, juicy, sweet; good; stone of medium size, oval,
flattened, semi-clinging; medium to late.

=Clara.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Am. Gard._ =14=:51. 1893. =2.= _Tex. Sta.
Bul._ =32=:482. 1894.

A large and attractive seedling of Wild Goose grown and introduced by G.
Onderdonk, Texas.

=Clarendon.= Angustifolia watsoni. =1.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 223.
1898.

One of several seedlings secured from northern Texas by F. T. Ramsey.

=Clark.= Species? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:48. 1892. =2.=
Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 294. 1903.

A wild seedling found in Anne Arundel County, Maryland. Tree moderately
vigorous, not hardy in the North; fruit of medium size, roundish, bright
red; dots numerous; stem short; cavity broad, deep; skin tough; flesh
yellow, firm; inferior.

=Cleavinger.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 274. 1854. =2.=
Hoffy _N. Am. Pom._ 1860.

Originated about 1845 with a Mr. Fernsler of Philadelphia from the
stone of an unnamed seedling; introduced by Wm. S. Cleavinger of West
Philadelphia. Tree vigorous; fruit large, oval; suture distinct; dark
purple; stem short, thick, surrounded by a fleshy ring; flesh deep
yellow, coarse, juicy, vinous, slightly subacid; good; mid-season.

=Cleveland.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:49. 1897. =2.= _Can.
Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:50. 1900. =3.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Mrs. Cleveland 1, 3.

A seedling of Wild Goose grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, in 1883.
Tree vigorous, spreading and productive; fruit large, oblong, slightly
pointed at the ends, light mottled red; good; clingstone; very early.

=Clifford.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892. =2.= Kerr
_Cat._ 1894. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 184. 1901.

Mrs. Clifford 1, 3. _Mrs. Clifford_ 2.

A seedling of Wild Goose grown by Mrs. Clifford of Denison, Texas,
and introduced by T. V. Munson and Son of the same place. Tree hardy,
vigorous, spreading, productive; fruit large, pear-shaped, sometimes with
a very distinct neck; suture shallow; bright scarlet with very small
yellow dots; flesh yellow, firm, sweet, aromatic; good; clingstone; a
little later than Wild Goose.

=Climax’s Brother.= Triflora × Simonii. =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =59=:655. 1900.

One of Burbank’s numerous crosses, having the same parents as Climax. The
tree is an upright grower like Simon and the fruit resembles this parent
in form and size; not as highly colored as Climax; unknown as yet by
plum-growers.

=Clinton.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 162. 1881. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:55, 86. 1892. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26.
1897. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 172. 1901.

Fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity shallow; stem slender; suture a
line; dull red; dots numerous; bloom thin; flesh yellow; quality fair;
clingstone; late. Mentioned in the American Pomological Society’s Catalog
from 1897 to 1899.

=Cluck.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1895. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc.
Cat._ 38. 1899. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 194. 1901. =4.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._
=67=:273. 1904.

Originated with George Cluck, Austin, Texas; introduced in 1896 by F.
T. Ramsey. Tree vigorous, productive; blooms very late; fruit of medium
size, roundish-oblong; cavity shallow; bright red with many small, yellow
dots; skin tough; flesh yellow, soft; quality fair; stone medium, oval,
turgid, clinging; mid-season.

=Cluster.= Domestica. Mentioned in Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1528. 1688.

=Cochet.= Domestica. =1.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 471. 1894. =2.=
_Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:50. 1900.

Cochets Pflaume 1. _Cochet Père_ 1.

Tree vigorous and productive; fruit large, oval, yellow with reddish
dots; suture medium; flesh yellowish, rich, sweet, pleasant; early.

=Coeur de Boeuf.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Div. of Pom. Bul._
=10=:19. 1901.

_Beef’s Heart_ 1. _Prunier de Carcassone._

Coeur de Boeuf originated in 1879 at Carcassonne, France, as a seedling
of a variety introduced from the province of Lerida, Spain, in 1854. The
following description was made from a tree under test on the grounds
of this Station: Tree vigorous, hardy; fruit of medium size, roundish;
cavity medium in size and depth; stem slender; suture medium; dark
brownish-red, covered with minute russet dots; bloom heavy; skin medium
thick; flesh yellowish, meaty, juicy, sweet, rich; good to very good;
stone small, oval, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Coe Violet.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 905. 1869. =2.=
_Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 341. 1887. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 425. 1889.

_Coe à Fruit Violet_ 3. _Coe’s Golden Drop Violette_ 1, 3. Coe’s Violet
1, 3. _Coe’s Violette_ 2. _Coe Violette_ 3. _Goutte d’Or Violette_ 3.

A variation from Golden Drop. Tree vigorous; fruit large, oval; suture
distinct; cavity small; stem long, thick; light reddish; dots brown,
numerous; flesh yellowish, sweet, juicy; good; clingstone.

=Coferer.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629.

_Coferers_ 1.

Parkinson describes this plum as, “Flat like a Peare Plum, early ripe and
black, of a very good relish.”

=Coinage.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Said by its originator, H. A. Terry, to be a seedling of Gold Coin. Fruit
large, slightly oblong, pale yellow ground, nearly covered with dark red;
flesh firm; clingstone.

=Coletta.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:60, 86.
1892. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 194. 1901. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:273.
1904.

This plum was grown by G. Onderdonk of Texas; introduced in 1874. Tree
slow in growth, hardy, somewhat open and thorny; leaves small, foliage
sparse; fruit medium in size, round, bright red; skin tough; flesh
yellow, soft; poor; clingstone; very early.

=Coleus.= Triflora × Cerasifera? =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:10. 1898.

Originated with J. S. Breece, North Carolina. Tree ornamental, vigorous;
leaves large, reddish, conspicuously veined; fruit small, globular;
suture faint; dull deep red; dots faint; skin thick and tough; flesh
medium firm, red; flavor flat; quality very poor; stone small, flattened,
clinging.

=Colman.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:264. 1900. =2.= Terry
_Cat._ 1900.

Collman 1.

H. A. Terry first fruited this variety in 1895. Tree upright, healthy,
fairly productive; fruit large, round, brilliant red; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Colorado Queen.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 146. 1901. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254, 255. 1905.

_Colorado_ 2.

Introduced by J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland. Fruit of medium size,
roundish; cavity lacking; suture a line; dull red with a light bloom;
flesh light yellow; quality fair; stone of medium size; clinging; early.

=Combination.= Triflora ×? =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 1901.

Grown by Luther Burbank. Tree uniform in growth; fruit large, roundish;
cavity deep; suture distinct; stem short; light crimson; flesh straw
color, sweet with slight pineapple flavor; early.

=Comfort.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894, =2.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._
=46=:265. 1900. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:29. 1903.

Introduced by J. Wragg & Sons, Waukon, Iowa, in 1879. Fruit small,
roundish; cavity narrow, shallow; suture a line; apex rounded; red; dots
numerous; bloom thin; skin thick, tough; flesh dark yellow, firm, juicy,
sweet; good; stone semi-clinging; mid-season; mentioned in the Catalog of
the American Pomological Society for 1899.

=Communia.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 87. 1890. =2.= _Ia.
Sta. Bul._ =46=:265. 1900. =3.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._ =101=:117, 118, Pl. III
fig. 119. 1901. =4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 309. 1903.

Introduced from Denmark by a German colony located at Communia, Clayton
County, Iowa. It resembles the Lombard so closely that they are often
confused. The tree is said to be hardier and a slower grower than the
Lombard, and its fruit of deeper blue and of higher quality. Subject to
rot.

=Compass.= _Prunus besseyi_ × Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._
=67=:10. 1898. =2.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 294. 1903. =3.= _S. Dak.
Sta. Bul._ =93=:13. 1905.

Compass Cherry 1.

A hybrid widely known in the West which originated in 1891 under
cultivation with H. Knudson of Springfield, Minnesota from a seed of
_Prunus besseyi_ pollinated by Miner; introduced by C. W. Sampson,
Eureka, Minnesota, in 1897. Tree vigorous, branches slender; fruit small,
roundish-oval, slightly flattened; cavity distinct; suture a line;
brownish-red, with light bloom; skin tough; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy,
tender, acid; quality fair; clingstone.

=Comptine.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
146. 1901.

Originated at Knoxville, Iowa. Tree low, spreading; fruit very small,
round, light red; dots many, minute; flesh yellow; very poor; stone
small, oval, clinging. One authority states that the color is yellow.

=Comte Gustave d’Egger.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 905.
1869. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432. 1889.

_Comte Gustave d’Egger_ 2. _Egger’sche Eier Zwetsche_ 2. Graf Gustav von
Egger 2.

An Austrian variety grown by M. Liegel of Braunau from seed of Abricotée.
Tree moderately vigorous; fruit small, oblong-oval; suture broad, deep,
distinct; skin pale yellow, bronzed in the sun and tinged with violet;
flesh yellowish, fine, sweet, juicy, delicious; freestone.

=Consul.= Americana mollis. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:30. 1903.

A seedling of Wolf grown at the Central Experimental Farm, Ottawa. Fruit
roundish, large; cavity narrow, medium in depth; suture a line; deep red;
dots moderately numerous, yellow, distinct; bloom light; skin thick,
tough; flesh deep yellow, juicy, sweet; good; stone semi-clinging; late.

=Cooch.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =21=:406. 1898.

A seedling grown by a Mr. Cooch of Ottawa, Canada, in 1889. Fruit
large; halves unequal; suture distinct; cavity shallow; dark red; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, soft, sweet; good; late.

=Cook.= Cerasifera. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900.

_Cook’s Early_ 1.

Fruit medium, roundish to oblong, red; clingstone; early.

=Cook Choice.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:78. 1892. =2.=
_Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 276. 1893. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =129=:34. 1896.

Cook 3. Cook’s Choice 1. _Cook’s Favorite_ 3. The Cook’s Choice 2.

This is an accidental seedling grown by H. A. Terry of Iowa in 1885. Tree
vigorous; fruit medium, round, red; skin thin; flesh yellow; good; stone
clinging; mid-season; a good culinary variety.

=Cooper.= Hortulana mineri × Munsoniana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 10. 1900.

A cross between Forest Garden and Pottawattamie. It is reported by J.
W. Kerr as being “a large, slightly oblong, red, clingstone variety,
ripening mid-season.”

=Cooper.= Domestica. =1.= McMahon _Am. Gard. Cal._ 587. 1806. =2.= Coxe
_Cult. Fr. Trees_ 236. 1817. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:97. 1832. =4.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 291. 1845. =5.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
288, 302, 383. 1846. =6.= _Mag. Hort._ =14=:152. 1848. =7.= Elliott _Fr.
Book_ 417. 1854. =8.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 691. 1884. =9.= _Guide Prat._
160, 357. 1895.

Cooper’s 6. Cooper’s Grosse Pflaume 9. _Cooper’s Grosse Rothe Zwetsche_
9. Cooper’s Large 1, 4, 5, 8. _Cooper’s Large_ 3, 6, 9. _Cooper’s Large
American_ 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9. Cooper’s Large Red 3. _Cooper’s Large Red_ 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9. _Cooper’s Large Red American_ 9. Coopers Plum 2. _Cooper’s
Plum_ 3, 5. _Cooper’s Red_ 7. Grosse De Cooper 9. _Grosse rouge de
Cooper_ 9. La Delicieuse 5. _La Delicieuse_ ?4, 8, 9. _Lady Lucy_ 8. _Red
Magnum Bonum_ 6 incor. _Smith’s Orleans_ 6. _Violet Perdrigon_ 6 incor.

Cooper is said to have originated at the beginning of the Nineteenth
Century from a seed of Orleans planted by Joseph Cooper of Gloucester
County, New Jersey. The variety was imported into England about 1820 and
became known in Europe under the name La Delicieuse which was corrupted
into Lady Lucy. This variety is so similar to the Smith Orleans that it
is impossible to separate them. They may be identical, or they may have
come true to seed from the same parent.

=Cope.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 274. 1854. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 906. 1869.

Cope’s Seedling 1.

A seedling raised by John Cope of Southwark, Philadelphia, some time
prior to 1850. Fruit large, long-oval, dark purple; stem long, slender;
flesh dry, somewhat acid; good for cooking; freestone.

=Cornemuse.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 145. 1831.

Fruit medium in size, purple, obovate; quality fair; freestone.

=Corymbus.= Species? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:222, 1899. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 207. 1901.

_The Beauty_ 1.

A variety first called “The Beauty” by the originator, A. L. Bruce
of Texas, who gives the parentage as Smelt Cherry × Abundance. Fruit
small, heart-shaped; cavity shallow; suture shallow; apex pointed; dark
wine-red; skin strong; flesh soft, yellow, rich, sweet; good; stone
small, round, smooth, clinging.

=Cottrell.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:37. 1892. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1899. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 146. 1901. =4.= _Can.
Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:30. 1903.

Cottrell was raised as a seedling by R. T. Cottrell, Dover, Olmstead
County, Minnesota, and was introduced by O. M. Lord of the same state in
1888. Fruit large, roundish; suture a line; cavity narrow; apex rounded;
skin thin, not adherent; mottled red over yellow; bloom medium; dots
numerous, small; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; good; stone flattened,
strongly and sharply margined, clinging; mid-season.

=Couler.= Americana? =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 235. 1882.

A variety from William Couler, Chickasaw County, Iowa; “a large plum of
fair quality, but cracking badly before ripening; season just before
Miner.”

=Coulommiers.= Domestica. =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 91. 1861. =2.= Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 426. 1889.

Coulommiers Pflaume 2. _Prune de Coulommiers_ 2.

Mentioned without a description.

=Coulon Reine Claude.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 426. 1889.

Coulon’s Reine Claude 1. _Reine Claude Coulon_ 1.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity small;
suture distinct; yellow; bloom thin; flesh yellowish, firm, sweet; good;
early.

=Coul Orleans.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 150.
1831.

=Court Royal.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 145. 1831.

=Cowperthwait Green Gage.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc.
Cat._ 148. 1831.

=Cox.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 906. 1869.

Cox’s Seedling 1.

A seedling from a Mrs. Cox, York, Pennsylvania. Tree vigorous and
upright; fruit very large, roundish-oval, slightly compressed; suture
broad, shallow; yellow, sometimes splashed with green; cavity narrow,
deep; flesh greenish-yellow, coarse, juicy, sweet; good; freestone; early.

=Crable.= Americana? =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 232. 1901.

A variety from Iowa. Fruit medium in size; obovate; cavity shallow; stem
long, slender; suture a line; apex pointed; orange with crimson blush;
dots many, minute, white; skin tough; flesh yellow; good; stone large,
elliptical, slightly winged, clinging.

=Craig.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

_Prof. Craig_ 1.

A seedling of Harrison, grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa. Fruit
large, bright yellow tinged with red; flesh yellow, rich; quality good;
semi-clinging.

=Crescent.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 287. 1887. =2.=
Terry _Cat._ 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 172. 1901.

Crescent City 1.

Originated with H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, from seed of Miner about
1880; first fruited in 1885. Fruit of medium size, oval; cavity shallow;
suture a line; dull red; dots many; bloom thin; flesh yellow; quality
fair; stone large, oval, clinging; mid-season.

=Crimson.= Nigra. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:266, 1900.

Introduced by H. Knudson, Springfield, Minnesota. Fruit above medium,
light red; skin thin; good; stone long, large, flattish; very early.

=Crimson Beauty.= Hortulana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897. =2.= _Vt. Sta. An.
Rpt._ =11=:283. 1898.

Fruit of medium size, oblong, cherry red; clingstone; earlier and more
vigorous than Golden Beauty.

=Crimson Drop.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Gard._ =22=:765. 1901. =2.= _Rural
N. Y._ =61=:354. 1902.

Brown’s Crimson Drop 1, 2.

This variety is said to be a sport from Golden Drop, which it resembles
closely except in color, which is a deep rich red.

=Croft Early.= Domestica. =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 425. 1854.

Croft’s Early 1.

Fruit small, reddish-blue; flesh yellow, dry; poor. Reported by Elliott
as unworthy of further culture.

=Cruger Scarlet.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =1=:365. 1835. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 293. 1845. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 417. 1855.
=4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 426. 1889.

_Cruger’s_ 2, 3. _Cruger’s Früh Pflaume_ 4. _Cruger’s Plum_ 4. Cruger’s
Rote Pflaume 4. Cruger’s Scarlet 2, 3. _Cruger’s Scarlet_ 4. _Cruger’s
Scarlet Gage_ 2, 3, 4. _Cruger’s Seedling_ 2, 3. Cruger’s Seedling 1, 4.
_Kruger’s Seedling._

Raised by Henry Cruger, West Point, New York, from a seed of Washington.
Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval, compressed; suture obscure; red
in the sun, lilac on the shaded side; bloom light; dots numerous,
yellow; cavity shallow; stem short, stout; flesh deep orange, dry, mild,
agreeable; good; nearly free; mid-season. Mentioned in the American
Pomological Society Catalog from 1875 to 1897.

=Csaszar Sziloa.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:209. 1898. =2.=
_Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =30=:18. 1905.

Imported from Hungary. Fruit large, roundish-ovate, compressed, dark
purple; flesh tender, juicy, greenish-yellow, mild, vinous; quality fair;
clingstone.

=Culberson.= Hortulana mineri × Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=12=:223. 1899. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 208. 1901.

_Mammoth July_ 1, 2.

A cross between Miner and Crimson Beauty grown by A. L. Bruce, Basin
Springs, Texas, and called Mammoth July, but renamed by Waugh in 1899.
Fruit above medium, spherical or slightly pointed, dark red; dots
numerous, yellow; skin thick, tough; flesh yellow; very good; stone
small, round, flattened, clinging.

=Cumberland.= Hortulana. =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1885. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:48, 86, 1892. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 26.
1897. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 178. 1901.

Cumberland originated with Philip Schley, who in 1864 collected pits from
trees growing on the Cumberland Mountains in Tennessee and from them grew
this plum. Tree vigorous and productive; fruit of medium size, oblong,
bright yellow; dots conspicuous; skin thick; flesh firm, meaty; good;
clingstone; season late; this variety is similar to Golden Beauty.

=Curlew.= Domestica. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:183. 1897. =2.=
Rivers _Cat._ 35. 1898.

Originated by Thomas Rivers at Sawbridgeworth, England. Tree very
productive, not hardy in this vicinity; fruit medium in size,
roundish-oval, purple; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet; firm; early.

=Curry.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:266. 1900. =2.=
Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 295. 1903.

A seedling grown by S. L. Curry, Welden, Iowa. Fruit large, oval,
compressed; cavity deep; dark purplish-red; surface rough, dull; dots
small, gray; bloom heavy; skin thick, not astringent; flesh yellow, firm,
slightly astringent; good; stone large, flat, winged; early.

=Cyca Mono.= Triflora. =1.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =129=:112. 1901.

Imported by the United States Department of Agriculture.

=Cyclone.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1899. =2.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Grown from seed of Harrison by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; first fruited
in 1897. Tree vigorous, spreading, fairly productive; fruit large, dark
red; good; mid-season.

=Cydemarine.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 145. 1831.

=Daisy.= Munsoniana × Triflora. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:223. 1899.
=2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 208. 1901.

A variety grown by J. S. Breece, North Carolina. Fruit large,
heart-shaped; suture indistinct; bright red, with many minute yellow
dots; flesh firm, yellow, sprightly; good.

=Dahlgreen.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:35. 1897. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 147. 1901.

A variety introduced by Chas. Luedloff, Cologne, Minnesota. Fruit medium
in size, oblong, mottled red; mid-season.

=Dakota.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900.

Fruit medium in size, round, mottled with dull purplish-red; clingstone;
fruit cracks and is much injured by rot.

=Dalrymple.= Insititia. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 695. 1884. =2.= Mathieu
_Nom. Pom._ 426. 1889. =3.= _Am. Gard._ =14=:146, 148 fig. 1892.

Dalrymple Damson 2.

Dalrymple closely resembles the Shropshire Damson but is hardier and the
tree is smaller.

=Damas Ambre.= Domestica? Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 145. 1831.

=Damaschino Estivo.= Domestica. =1.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl. 1839.

Damaschino d’Estate 1. Zuccherino 1.

According to Gallesio this is a strain of the Damaschino Settembrino
and is common in parts of Italy. Flowers small and white, unfolding in
clusters; fruit obovate like the Settembrino, but slightly larger and its
skin, which is yellow, is more easily removed.

=Damaschino Settembrino.= Domestica. =1.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl.
1839.

Susino Damaschino Settembrino 1.

An old Italian variety. Of the two plums which bear the name Damaschino
this is the smaller and the more savory. Fruit small, obovate,
golden-yellow; pulp fleshy and sugary.

=Damas de Diffenbach.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:165. 1873.
=2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889.

_Damas de Dieffenbach_ 2. _Damas Noir de Dieffenbach_ 2. Dieffenbachs
Damascene 2. _Dieffenbachs Schwarze Damascene_ 2. _Diffenbachs Damascene_
1.

Liegel obtained this variety from a seed of the Saint Jean and dedicated
it to Diffenbach, head gardener of the Botanical Garden in Vienna,
Austria. Tree of medium vigor, small; fruit small, roundish-ovate; halves
often unequal; suture shallow; purplish-black with a thick bloom; stem
short; cavity shallow; flesh yellow, tender, juicy, sweet and slightly
aromatic; freestone; mid-season.

=Damas de Provence.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:86. 1832.
=2.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 258. 1832. =3.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846.
=4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 357. 1866. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 939. 1869.
=6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 443. 1889.

_Damas de Provence_ 5, 6. _Damas de Provence hâtif_ 1, 4, 5, 6. _Damask
of Provence_ 2. _Early Damask of Provence_ 1, 5, 6. _Provence Damask_ 1,
6. Provence Damask 5. Provencer Königspflaume 6. Prune Damas de Provence
3. _Prunus provincialis_ 3.

Damas de Provence is an old European variety; fruit of medium size,
roundish; suture deep; cavity small; reddish-purple; bloom thick; flesh
greenish, sweet; quality poor; freestone; very early.

=Damas d’Ete.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:113. 1873. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 353. 1895.

_Summer Damson_ 1, 2.

Mas thought this variety was of English or American origin but there
seems to be no reason for this conclusion. Tree small, very productive;
fruit small, oval, purplish-black; flesh greenish, fine, juicy, sweet,
highly flavored; clingstone; early.

=Damas Dronet.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:75. 1768.
=2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:40, Tab. 191 fig. 2. 1796. =3.= Prince _Pom.
Man._ =2=:86. 1832. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 910. 1869. =5.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 693. 1884.

_Damas Dronet_ 2, 4. _Damson Dronet_ 1. Die kleine langlichte
Damaskuspflaume 1. Dronet Damask 3.

Damas Dronet is an old French variety. Fruit small, oval; suture a line;
stem slender; cavity narrow, deep; greenish-yellow; bloom thin; skin
not adherent; flesh greenish, firm, sweet; good; stone small, free;
mid-season.

=Damas Dronet de Merlet.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._
=2=:75. 1768.

Duhamel states that this is distinct from the Damas Dronet described by
him on the same page.

=Damas Jaune Musque.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:57. 1873.

_Muskirte Gelbe Damascene_ 1.

A foreign variety first mentioned by Christ, a German writer. Tree
vigorous, productive; fruit medium in size, usually ovoid; suture shallow
or a mere line; skin tender, not adherent, yellow, with a thin bloom;
stem long, slender; cavity shallow; flesh yellow, tender, firm, juicy,
sweet, of musky flavor; freestone; very early.

=Damas Noir de Tours.= Domestica. =1.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21.
1803.

Mentioned by Forsyth in the preceding reference. It may be the same as
Précoce de Tours, but we have no proof.

=Damas Rouge de Biondeck.= Domestica. =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 490. 1908.

Mentioned by a French writer as early and good.

=Damas Rouge Hatif.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 354. 1895.

_Damas Rouge Hâtif_ 1. _Haferkrieche_ 1, 2. Rote Früh Damascene 1. _Rothe
Früh Damascene_ 2.

A variety of little merit.

=Damatie Rouge.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 145. 1831.

=Damson Royal.= Insititia. =1.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 282.
1846.

Described in the preceding reference as similar to “Prune Damson,” but
larger.

=Damas Violet.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:70. 1768.
=2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:44, Tab. 199 fig. 1. 1796. =3.= Quintinye
_Com. Gard._ 68. 1699. =4.= Willich _Dom. Enc._ 180. 1803. =5.= _Mag.
Hort._ =9=:163. 1843. =6.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846. =7.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 729. 1884.

_Damas Violet_ 2, 4, 7. Damas Violet Tardif ?5. Die veilchenfarbige
Damascenerpflaume 2. Ladies’ Plum 4. _Long Violet Damask_ 3. Prune
Gros-Damas Violet 6. Violet Damask 7.

An old variety of unknown origin concerning which there has been much
confusion. Parkinson, in 1629, and a few later writers have made it
synonymous to Queen Mother, but it differs from this variety in that
Damas Violet has pubescent shoots and oval fruit, while the Queen Mother
has glabrous shoots and round fruit. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit
medium, purple; flesh yellow, firm, sweet and briskly flavored, separates
from the stone; season early.

=Damson Riley.= Insititia. =1.= Stark _Cat._ 29. 1910.

A variety from Ohio said to have been grown for about twenty years.
Introduced by Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, in 1910.

=Dana Yellow Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 275. 1845.
=2.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book._ 215. 1849. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:109. 1873.

Dana’s Gage 2. _Dana’s Yellow Gage_ 3. Reine-Claude Jaune De Dana 3.

Dana Yellow Gage was raised by a Rev. Mr. Dana of Ipswich, Massachusetts.
Fruit of medium size, oval, pale yellow; bloom thin; flesh sweet, juicy,
clingstone; mid-season.

=Daniel Weeping.= Species? =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:10. 1898.

A hybrid which originated with a Dr. Daniel in Louisiana; introduced
by J. L. Normand. Tree bushy, spreading and drooping; leaves thick and
tough, ovate, acutely pointed, glandular.

=Danish Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 25. 1897. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:266. 1900. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 310. 1903. =4.=
_S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:15 1905.

Kreger 1. _Kreger_ 2. _Krueger_ 3.

H. Knudson, Springfield, Minnesota, imported this variety in the spring
of 1884 and introduced it a few years later. It seems to be grown only
in Iowa, Minnesota, South Dakota and adjoining states, being practically
unknown in the East. Fruit small, roundish, dark blue; good; freestone;
mid-season.

=Darst.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =11=:112. 1845.

A seedling originated at Dayton, Ohio, in the garden of a Mr. Darst.
Fruit medium in size, of excellent quality.

=Date.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 575, 576. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 208. 1676. =3.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 69. 1699. =4.= Duhamel
_Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:113. 1768. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 908. 1869.
=6.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 560. 1876.

Date Plum 5. Dattelpflaumen 6. _Dattelzwetsche_ 5. _D’Autriche_ 5. Great
Date 3. _Ienua_ 1. Prune Datte 4. _Prune Datte_ 5. _Prune d’Autriche_ 5.
_Quetsche Datte_ 5. _Quetsche de Hongrie_ 5. White Date 2. White Date
Plum 1. Yellow Date 2.

During the four centuries in which this variety has been cultivated in
Europe numerous strains have arisen which have been designated by the
general term Dattelpflaumen. The group is characterized by roundish or
oval fruits, yellow or greenish in color, sometimes marked with red
on the sunny side; flesh yellow, soft; poor in quality; clingstone;
mid-season or later. The original variety is probably obsolete.

=Datilles.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 70. 1699.

Little Date 1. _Little Date_ 1.

A long-shaped red plum, mentioned by Quintinye, which has either
disappeared or is now grown under a different name.

=Datte Hongroise Jaune.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 159, 354. 1895.

This variety was sent into France by M. Bereczki Mate, of Hungary. The
tree is vigorous, productive; fruit large, long, greenish-yellow dotted
with red; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy; good; mid-season.

=Dauphine.= Domestica. =1.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846.

Prune Dauphine 1.

Poiteau says, “Duhamel regarded as synonyms the names Reine Claude and
Dauphine. Since then a new plum has been shown, and I know not who named
it Dauphine; but it is under this name that it has been introduced and
cultivated in the nursery of the Jardin des Plantes and of Luxembourg.”

=Davenport.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:268. 1900. =2.=
Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 295. 1903.

A seedling grown by N. K. Fluke, Davenport, Iowa, from seed of De Soto.
Fruit medium in size, oval, sometimes conical; suture a line; skin
smooth, clear yellow with pink blush on the sunny side; flesh yellow,
firm, sugary; very good; freestone.

=Davies Seedling.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146.
1831.

Davies’ Seedling.

=Davis.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:35. 1897. =2.= Terry
_Cat._ 1900.

A variety grown from seed of Wild Goose in 1885 by H. A. Terry, Crescent,
Iowa. Tree low, spreading, vigorous and productive; fruit large, bright
red; quality fair.

=Dawson.= Species? =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =17=:144. 1875.

At one time a profitable variety grown on the banks of the Ohio.

=Dawson City.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory,
Canada. Fruit of medium size.

=Dean.= Domestica. =1.= McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ =2=:530. 1855.

Dean’s Jedburgh Seedling 1.

A seedling grown at Dean’s nursery, Jedburgh, England. Fruit of medium
size, round, purple; freestone; adapted for dessert or kitchen;
mid-season.

=Deaton.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:268. 1900. =2.=
Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 310. 1903.

_Tobe’s Gage_ 2.

Grown from a sprout of Reine Claude planted near Des Moines; introduced
by J. Wragg & Sons, Waukee, Iowa. Fruit medium in size, oval, truncate;
suture broad and shallow; skin greenish-yellow; dots small, numerous;
bloom thin; flesh greenish, firm, juicy; good; clingstone.

=Deck.= Insititia. =1.= Wild Bros. _Cat._ 1908-09.

Decks Damson 1.

An improved strain of Damson introduced by Wild Brothers, Sarcoxie,
Missouri.

=Decker.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 401. 1896. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 172. 1901.

Decker’s Late Seedling 1. _Decker’s Seedling_ 2.

A seedling raised about 1885 by H. C. Decker of Dresbach, Minnesota,
from pits of a variety substituted for German Prune; introduced by W. S.
Widmoyer of the same place about 1897. Fruit medium to large, conical;
suture distinct; red; dots many, yellowish; flesh yellow; flavor rich;
nearly free; mid-season.

=Deep Creek.= Americana. =1.= _Mich. Board Agr. Rpt._ 111. 1887. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:37, 86. 1892. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254,
255. 1905.

Deepcreek 3.

Found growing wild in Kansas; introduced by Abner Allen. Tree slow
and irregular in growth; branches thorny; fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval, compressed; suture distinct; cavity small; stem short;
dull red; skin thick; flesh yellow, firm, sweet; good; stone rough,
pointed, free; mid-season; of little value.

=De Delice.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 360. 1857. =2.=
_Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:55. 1900.

_Prune de Délices_ 2.

Tree vigorous and productive; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture
small; green, marbled and shaded with violet; bloom thin; flesh orange
yellow, juicy, sugary, luscious; slightly clinging; late.

=Defresne.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 158, 354. 1895.

A Belgian variety both vigorous and productive; fruit large, long,
purplish; flesh greenish; good; mid-season.

=De Gondin.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:91. 1873.

Grown by M. Vaubernier of Laval, Mayenne, and introduced in 1862 by
M. M. Bruant & Company, nurserymen at Poiters, France. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit very large, roundish; suture disappearing at maturity;
dark purple; bloom thin; flesh yellow, tender, juicy; freestone.

=De la Toussaint.= Species? =1.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 354. 1895.

A very late and long keeping variety.

=Delaware.= Triflora. =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 18. 1893. =2.= _Rural N. Y._
=59=:642. 1900. =3.= _Ibid._ =60=:694. 1901. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 134.
1901.

Burbank produced this variety by crossing Satsuma with Kelsey; first
offered for sale in 1893; disseminated in the East by J. L. Childs,
Floral Park, New York. Tree semi-dwarf, productive but comes into bearing
late; fruit of medium size, roundish-conical, dark purple, with thick
bloom; flesh red, juicy, sweet and rich; good; stone clinging; mid-season.

=De l’Inde.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =6=:561. 1851.

Described by Baptiste Desportes of Angers, France, in 1851. Tree
vigorous; branches long, upright; fruit large, obovate, violet-reddish;
dots gray and blue; flesh reddish-yellow, firm, juicy, melting; quality
fair.

=De Montfort.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort_. =12=:341. 1846. =2.= _Pom.
France_ =2=: No. 3. 1871. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 713. 1884. =4.= Lucas
_Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 470. 1894.

_Montfort Pflaume_ 4. Prune de Montfort 2.

Originated in the nurseries of Madame Ebert, Montfortin, France; named
and introduced by M. Prevost, Rouen, France. Tree vigorous, spreading,
productive; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture distinct; cavity
shallow; dark purple, with russet dots; flesh green, juicy, sweet, rich;
good; freestone; mid-season. Mentioned in the American Pomological
Society’s Catalog from 1877-1897.

=De Montmirail.= Domestica? =1.= _Guide Prat._ 158, 354. 1895.

Tree of moderate vigor, productive; fruit medium in size, long-oval;
yellow lightly blushed with red; flesh yellow; good; early.

=Denbigh.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831. =2.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 357. 1866. =3.= Gaucher _Pom. Prak. Obst._ No. 92. 1894.
=4.= Bartrum _Pears and Plums_, 65, 71. 1903.

_Cox’s Emperor_ 2, 3. Cox’s Emperor 4. _Denbigk_ 3. _Denbigh-Pflaume_ 3.
_Denbigh Seedling_ 4. Emperor 1. _Jemmy Moore_ 4.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, roundish-oval, bright red to
reddish-brown; flesh golden-yellow, sweet, melting, pleasant flavor;
freestone; mid-season.

=Dennis.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892. =2.= _Ia.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 276. 1893. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 147. 1901.

Dr. Dennis 1, 2. _Dr. Dennis_ 3.

Originated with H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, supposedly from seed of
Hawkeye; first fruited in 1891. Fruit round to slightly oblong, medium in
size; suture a line; bright red; dots many, minute, white; flesh yellow;
good; clingstone; early.

=Dennis Seedling No. 13.= Hortulana mineri.

Grown at the Iowa Experiment Station. The fruit is of medium size,
roundish, dark red; dots conspicuous; suture a line; skin thick, tough;
flesh firm, juicy, tender, sweetish; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Denniston Red.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 296. 1845. =2.=
_Mag. Hort._ =13=:532. 1847. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 337. 1849.
=4.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:133. 1866-73. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889.

Denniston’s Red 1. _Denniston’s Red_ 5. _Dennison’s Red_ 5. Denniston’s
Rote Pflaume 5. _Rouge de Denniston_ 4, 5.

Grown by Isaac Denniston of Albany, New York. The parentage is not
known but Thomas thinks it is a seedling of Lombard. Fruit large,
roundish-oval; suture distinct; cavity small; light red with yellow dots;
bloom thin; flesh amber, juicy, rich, sprightly; good; stone small, oval,
compressed, free; mid-season.

=Denniston Superb.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 275. 1845.
=2.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:121. 1866-73. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427.
1889. =4.= Bartrum _Pears and Plums_ 63. 1903.

_Dennison’s Superb_ 3. _Denniston’s Superb_ 2. Denniston’s Superb Gage 4.
_Madison_ 3. Superbe de Denniston 2, 3.

Grown by Isaac Denniston, Albany, New York, about 1835 or 1840. Fruit
round, larger than Reine Claude of which it is probably a seedling,
slightly flattened; suture distinct; cavity shallow; stem of medium
length; pale yellow, blotched with red; bloom thin; flesh thick, meaty,
moderately juicy, with a rich, vinous flavor; very good; stone small,
roundish, thick, free; mid-season; catalogued by the American Pomological
Society from 1877 to 1899.

=D’Ente Imperiale.= Domestica. =1.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 355. 1895.

A variety closely resembling the Agen except that it is more vigorous in
tree growth.

=Denton.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =13=:279. 1871.

A variety introduced many years ago by J. W. Kerr; it closely resembles
Yellow Transparent, but is a much smaller tree.

=Derbyshire Green Gage.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._
148. 1831.

=Deron.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831.

Deron’s.

=De Seigneur.= Species? =1.= _Guide Prat._ 161, 355. 1895.

_De Prince_ (_en Lorraine_) 1.

Tree productive; fruit small, roundish, bluish; bloom heavy; flesh green,
fine-grained, juicy, sweet; good; late.

=Des Moines.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
147. 1901.

Originated in Iowa. Fruit small, round-oval; suture a line; dull red
over yellow; dots many, minute; flesh yellow; quality poor; stone small,
semi-free; mid-season.

=Dewey.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =2.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
136. 1903.

Admiral Dewey 1, 2.

A seedling of De Soto grown by H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa. Fruit
large, round, dark red on an orange ground; clingstone; tree productive.

=Diademe Imperial-Isabelle.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
427. 1889.

=Diamond.= Americana. =1.= _Neb. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 121. 1890.

A seedling grown by John A. Hogg, Shelton, Nebraska, about 1880 from pits
of a wild plum found in Buffalo County, Nebraska. According to Mr. Hogg,
the variety “grows fully as large as most of the tame varieties; ripens
the last of September and when fully ripe gets bright red on one side.”

=Diana.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:35. 1897. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:268. 1900.

A plum of the Van Buren type grown from a seed of Hawkeye by H. A.
Terry, Crescent, Iowa; first fruited in 1893. Tree large, vigorous,
upright-spreading; fruit truncate, conical or oval; suture distinct;
cavity small, shallow; stem short, stout; yellow, washed and spotted with
purple-red; dots indistinct; bloom thin; skin thick and tough; flesh
yellow, meaty, sweet and rich; good; stone large, flat, oval, clinging;
mid-season.

=Diapree Blanche.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629. =2.=
Langley _Pomona_ 95, Pl. XXIV fig. IV. 1729. =3.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb.
Fr._ =2=:104, Pl. XX fig. 11. 1768. =4.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:44, Tab.
198 fig. 2. 1796. =5.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:500. 1860. =6.=
Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 405. 1881.

_Diaper’d Plumb_ 2. _Diaprée Blanche_ 4. Diaprée Weisse 6. Die Weisse
Buntfarbige Pflaume 4. Prune Diaprée Blanche 5. White Diapred 1. Yellow
Diaprée 2.

This plum has been mentioned by European writers for three centuries.
Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture a line; cavity nearly lacking;
skin tough; yellow; bloom thin; flesh firm, yellow, sweet, rich; quality
good; mid-season.

=Diapree Nouvelle De Kook.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:155.
1873. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 438. 1889.

_Kook’s Gelbe Diaprée_ 2. _Kooks Neue Diapre_ 1. Kook’s Neue Diaprée 2.

This plum originated as a second generation seedling with a Mr. Kook of
New Brauenfels, Texas, and was named by Liegel to whom he submitted the
variety. The fruit is small, oval; cavity small; skin clear yellow; flesh
yellow, tender, aromatic; quality good; stone free; season early.

=Dictator.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =6=:92. 1840. =2.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 403. 1857. =3.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 55. 1878.

Corse’s Dictator 3.

A seedling raised by Henry Corse of Montreal about 1834. Tree hardy,
vigorous; fruit large, brownish-purple; flesh juicy, rich; good; stone
small.

=Diel Grosse Weisse Damascene.= Insititia? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427.
1889.

_Ak Erik_ 1. _Al Erik_ 1. _Dschau Erik_ 1. _Frühe Weisse
Aprikosenpflaume_ 1. _Gros-Damas Blanc._

Mentioned without description in the preceding reference.

=Dine.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629.

Fruit large, white; dots numerous; late.

=Dittisham.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831.

Mentioned as cultivated in the London Horticultural Society Gardens.

=Dixie.= Triflora. =1.= _Horticultural Gleaner_ 1899.

Grown about 1894 in the vicinity of Whitesville, Georgia, from seed of
Burbank, open to cross pollination. Fruit the size of Burbank, bright
red; flesh juicy; good; late.

=Dixie.= Triflora. =1.= Hood _Cat._ 1906.

An early Triflora variety.

=Dochnahl Damascene.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 444.
1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889.

_Dochnahl’s Königs Pflaume_ 2.

As tested in Germany, very unproductive.

=Dojene.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:57. 1771.

Origin unknown. Tree productive; fruit large, oval; yellow; flesh watery;
poor; stone clinging.

=Dollaner.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 445. 1881. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889.

Dollaner Zwetsche 2. _Quetsche de Dollan_ 2.

A variety imported from France by the United States Department of
Agriculture. Reported by Oberdieck as “a prune which has borne little
fruit since 1856.”

=Domina.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889.

_Domino_ 1.

Reference found by Mathieu in _Monatsschrift für Pomologie_ 7. 1858.

=Domine Dull.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 296. 1845. =3.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
302, 383. 1846.

Domine Dull’s 1. Domine Dull’s Plum 3. _Dutch Prune_ 2. _Dutch Quetszen_
2, 3. _German Prune_ 2, 3.

Mr. Dull, a Dutch domine, brought a prune seed from Holland and planted
it in Kingston, New York. From this seed sprang the Domine Dull, a
variety often confused with the German Prune. Fruit of medium size,
long-oval; suture slight; stem long; cavity small; dark purple; bloom
thin; flesh yellow, juicy, rich, sweet; good; clingstone; late. Mentioned
in the Catalog of the American Pomological Society in 1867.

=Don.= Americana mollis. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:30. 1903.

A seedling of Wolf raised at the Central Experimental Farm, Ottawa. Fruit
large, roundish; suture a line; uniformly bright red; dots numerous,
small, distinct; bloom moderate; flesh deep yellow, juicy; sweet, rich;
good; stone of medium size, oval, clinging; late.

=Don Alteza.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629.

According to Parkinson “a very good sort.”

=Don Carlos.= Domestica. Mentioned in Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803.

Don Carlos’.

=Dora.= Triflora × Munsoniana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:270. 1901.

A seedling from A. L. Bruce, Texas, said to be a cross between Abundance
and Wild Goose. Fruit medium to large, cordate; suture faint; skin
tender, bright red; dots minute; bloom heavy; flesh yellow, firm, sweet,
rich; good; stone small, oval, clinging.

=Doree.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:145. 1866-73.

D’Agen Dorée 1.

Found by Léo d’Ounous in an orchard planted by his father in Ariége,
France; published for the first time by Mas in _Le Verger_. Tree
vigorous; fruit medium, ovoid; suture shallow; skin tender, not adherent,
golden-yellow tinged with rose-violet; stem slender, rather short; cavity
shallow; flesh yellow, fine, juicy, very agreeably aromatic.

=Dorell.= Domestica. =1.= Downing Fr. _Trees Am._ 393. 1857. =2.= _Ann.
Pom. Belge_ =8=:35, Pl. 1860. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 374. 1866. =4.= Mas
_Pom. Gen._ =2=:27. 1873. =5.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 409. 1881.
=6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889. =7.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 473.
1894.

_Dorrel_ 2. _Dorells Grosse Zwetsche_ 4. _Dorelle’s Neue Grosse Zwetsche_
3, 6. Dorell’s Neue Purpurzwetsche 5. _Dorelle’s New Purple Prune_ 6.
_Dorells Neue Grosse Zwetsche_ 4, 6. Dorells grosse neue Zwetsche 7.
Grosse Quetsche De Dorell 4. _Grosse Quetsche Nouvelle_ 6. Nouvelle de
Dorelle 3. _Nouvelle De Dorrel_ 6. _Nouveau De Dorrelle_ 6. Prune Grosse
Quetsche Nouvelle 2. _Prune nouvelle de Dorrel_ 2. _Quetsche De Dorelle_
6. Quetsche De Dorelle Nouvelle Grand 1. _Quetsche Grosse Nouvelle De
Dorrel_ 6. _Quetsche De Dorelle Nouvelle Grande_ 6.

A seedling raised by Dr. Dorell, of Kuttenberg, Bohemia. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit large, oval; suture wide but shallow; cavity small;
stem smooth, reddish; skin reddish-violet, marked with numerous russet
dots; flesh yellowish, juicy, sweet, aromatic, agreeable; good for
drying; late mid-season.

=Dorell Aprikosenpflaume.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427.
1889.

_Abricotée Nouvelle de Dörell._ _Dorell’s Neue Aprikosen Pflaume._
_Mirabelle de Doerell._

=Doris.= Species? =1.= Watkins & Bros. _Cat._ 20. 1897-8. =2.= _Vt. Sta.
An. Rpt._ =14=:271. 1901. =3.= _Mass. Sta. An. Rpt._ =17=:161. 1905.

A variety of doubtful parentage from Burbank; introduced by Stark
Brothers in 1895. Fruit small, roundish-oblate; suture faint; light red;
dots numerous; flesh yellow, watery; quality poor.

=Dorr.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =8=:346. 1851. =2.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 909. 1869.

Dorr’s Favorite 1, 2.

A Reine Claude seedling grown by either Isaac Denniston or Elisha Dorr,
both of Albany, New York. Fruit large, oval; suture broad; cavity small;
apex sunken; yellow with red dots; bloom thin; flesh yellow, coarse,
juicy; good; clingstone; late.

=Dorr Seedling.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889.

_Semis de Dorr_ 1.

This may be identical with Dorr.

=Dorsett.= Munsoniana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

A chance seedling from H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; introduced by F. W.
Meneray of Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit large, yellow blotched with red;
skin thin; good; clingstone; early.

=Dosch.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 150. 1895. =2.= _Oregon
Sta. Bul._ =40=:73. 1896. =3.= _Ibid._ =45=:30. 1897. 4. Washington
_Cat._ 22. 1906. =5.= _Chico Nur. Co. Cat._ 25. 1909. =6.= _Oregon Cat._
35. 1906.

The Dosch 2.

The Dosch prune grew on the farm of Henry E. Dosch, Hillsdale, Oregon,
from a sprout below the union on a Washington plum tree grafted on plum
roots. Tree vigorous, round-topped, prolific, similar to Italian; fruit
large, roundish-oval; apex flattened, base acute; suture shallow; stem
medium; skin firm; dark purple; flesh greenish, firm, sweet; good;
freestone.

=Double.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:60. 1771.

_Prune de Double_ 1.

Double differs from Paisin Blanche in that it is a little larger, less
yellow in color, and poorer in flavor.

=Double Plum.= Domestica. 1. _Can. Hort._ =16=:193 fig. 541. 1893.

A novelty growing in the gardens of Chernigow, Russia, in which the fruit
consists of two plums joined together, but easily separated at maturity;
fruit bluish-red, sometimes yellow; flesh orange colored, sweet, juicy;
quality fair; two stones, clinging.

=Dougall Best.= Domestica. =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =43=:779. 1884.

Dougall’s Best 1.

A chance seedling raised by James Dougall of Windsor, Canada. Tree
productive; fruit oblong, tapering to the stalk; suture distinct; clear
yellow, touched with carmine toward the sun; good; stone partially free.

=Douglass.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

Grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, from seed of Harrison; introduced
by F. W. Meneray, Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit large, oblong, yellow
blushed with red; flesh yellow, sweet, rich, firm; semi-clinging.

=Dove Bank.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 358. 1866. =2.= _Garden_
=53=:265. 1898.

_Caledonian_ 2 incor.

Hogg could see no difference between this variety and the Goliath, but
H. A. Pearson in the _Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society_, for
1897, says that they are distinct. Pearson adds, further; “The true
variety was grown and distributed by Spencer, of Ilkeston, ... and is
said to have been found growing on the banks of the Derbyshire Dove; it
differs from Caledonian (Goliath) in growth, and whereas the leaf glands
of that variety are well developed and red in color, Dove Bank has small
ill-developed glands of a pale color; with regard to the fruit there is
no comparison between the two. Caledonian is a somewhat coarse cooking
plum. Dove Bank is a splendid cooking plum, and good enough for dessert.”

=Downing Early.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 910. 1869.

Downing’s Early 1.

Originated at Newburgh, New York. Tree moderately vigorous; branches
short-jointed; fruit medium, oval, yellow with slight blush, and crimson
dots; flesh yellow, sweet, slightly adherent to the stone; good;
mid-season.

=Downton Imperatrice.= Domestica. =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 259. 1832.
=2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 274. 1845. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 358. 1866.
=4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889.

_Downton Impératrice_ 4. Downton’s Kaiserin 4. _Downtoner Kaiserin_ 4.

Grown by the famous horticulturist, Thomas A. Knight, from pits produced
by pollinating Yellow Egg with Blue Imperatrice. Fruit medium, oval;
suture slightly marked; skin thin, tender, pale yellow; flesh yellow,
juicy, melting, agreeably subacid; good for preserving; stone clinging;
late.

=Drake Seedling.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =24=:406. 1901.

Drake’s Seedling 1.

A seedling raised in the orchard of George Drake, Clarksburg, Ontario.
Skin yellow, dull red on the sunny side; flesh yellow; a good cooking
plum.

=Drouth King.= Munsoniana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
194. 1901.

Of unknown origin. Fruit small, oval, bright red; dots many, conspicuous;
flesh yellow; good; stone of medium size, oval, clinging; mid-season.

=Dr. Uff.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:51. 1895. =2.= _Mich.
Sta. Sp. Bul._ =27=:14. 1904.

Imported by the United States Department of Agriculture from Hungary.
Fruit medium to large, roundish-ovate, dark purple; bloom light; flesh
medium firm, juicy, yellow; good; clingstone; early.

=Dr. Uff Szilvaja.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:209. 1898.

Imported from Hungary as Dr. Uff but it differs markedly from this
variety. Fruit small to medium, roundish-oblong; skin greenish-yellow
with a faint red tinge; stem one-half inch long; flesh greenish-yellow,
tender, juicy, sweet, rich; good; freestone.

=Dry Seedling.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =29=:898. 1869. =2.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 698. 1884. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d. Ser. =3=:51. 1900.
=4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889.

Dry’s Seedling 1, 2. _Semis de Dry_ 2.

A seedling raised by a Mr. Dry, at Hayes, Middlesex, England; awarded a
first class certificate by the Royal Horticultural Society in 1869. Fruit
large, roundish-oval; suture slight; reddish-purple; bloom thin; flesh
dull greenish-yellow, firm yet juicy; freestone; early.

=Duke.= Munsoniana ×? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900. =2.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=14=:271. 1901.

A supposed cross between Pottawattamie and the Duke Cherry, originating
with Theodore Williams, Nebraska. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit
larger than Wild Goose, of nearly the same form; cavity narrow, deep;
suture a line; bright red; flesh yellow, firm, mild subacid; clingstone;
mid-season. Waugh states that this variety resembles a Wild Goose crossed
with an Americana and that he is unable to detect any cherry characters.

=Duke of Devonshire.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._
146. 1831.

=Duke of Edinburgh.= Domestica. =1.= _Jour. Hort._ =21=:216. 1869. =2.=
_Flor. & Pom._ =7=:193. 1871. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 698. 1884. =4.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889. _Duc d’Edinbourg_ 4.

A variety raised by a Mr. Dry, Hayes, Middlesex, England. Fruit large,
roundish-obovate; suture shallow; skin thin, light purple; flesh
reddish-yellow, juicy, richly flavored; freestone; good culinary plum.

=Dumberline.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831.

A variety under test in the London Horticultural Society Gardens in 1831.

=Dummer.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 698. 1884.

Raised in 1837 by a Mr. Dummer at Canterbury, England. Fruit large, red;
like Red Magnum Bonum.

=Dumiron.= Domestica. =1.= _Cal. Nurs. Co. Cat._ 11. 1897.

Imported from Transon Bros., Orleans, France, by the late John Rock of
California; not introduced.

=Dunkelblaue Kaiserin.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428.
1889.

_Violette Kaiserin_ incor.

=Dunlap.= Hortulana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =63=:36. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 185. 1901.

Dunlap No. 2 3. Dunlap’s No. 2 2.

Originated and introduced by J. P. Dunlap of Nebraska. Fruit large,
oval; cavity shallow; suture a line; surface smooth, glossy, bright
red; dots many; bloom thin; flesh yellow, soft, juicy, sweet, rich;
good; clingstone; mid-season; reported in the catalog of the American
Pomological Society for 1899.

=Dunlap No. 1.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:36. 1897. =2.=
_Ibid._ =87=:13. 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 148. 1901.

Dunlap 2. Dunlap (No. 1) 3. Dunlap’s No. 1 1.

Another variety produced by J. P. Dunlap of Nebraska. Fruit medium
in size, oblong; suture a line; greenish-yellow covered with dull
purplish-red; bloom heavy; flesh tender, juicy, rich, sweet; freestone.

=Dunlop Nut.= Americana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 305. 1893.

A hardy variety tested at the Experimental Farm at Ottawa.

=Dunmore.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =9=:163. 1843. =2.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 380. 1857. =3.= Hogg _Fr. Man._ 359. 1866. =4.= Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 428. 1889.

_Dunmore_ 4.

Fruit medium in size, oval; skin thick, greenish-yellow becoming golden;
stem half an inch long; flesh yellow, tender, juicy, sweet; good;
freestone; late.

=Durazen Zwetsche.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889.

Reference taken by Mathieu from the _Pomologische Monatshefte_ 2. 1882.

=Eagle.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1902-3. =2.= _Ohio Sta.
Bul._ =162=:254, 255. 1905.

Originated in Texas; tree low, spreading; fruit of medium size, round;
suture slight; skin light red; flesh yellow; good; stone clinging; early.

=Early.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887.

_Skorospielka_ 1.

From Russia.

=Early Amber.= Domestica. =1.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803. =2.=
Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 297. 1846.

Fruit small, roundish-oblong, pale greenish-yellow with crimson specks;
flesh greenish-yellow, juicy; stone clinging; early.

=Early Apricot.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:70. 1832. =2.=
Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:21. 1873. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430. 1889.

_Abricotée Hâtive_ 1, 3. Abricotée Hâtive 2. _Abricote Hâtif_ 1.
_Abricotée Précoce_ 3. Early Apricot Plum 1. _Frühe Aprikosenpflaume_ 2.
Frühe Aprikosenpflaume 3. _Oberdiecks Frühe Aprikosenpflaume_ 2, 3.

The fruit of Early Apricot is small, roundish; suture shallow; cavity
distinct; pale red, darker in the sun; dots small, numerous; flesh
yellowish-green, slightly juicy, firm; quality fair; clingstone; season
early.

=Early Blue.= Domestica. =1.= _Ont. Fr. Growers Assoc._ 87. 1896. =2.=
_Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 52. 1897.

A Domestica of American origin. Fruit the size of Lombard; very early.

=Early Blue.= Domestica. =1.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ =2.= 1807. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 899. 1869. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:13. 1873.
=4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 698. 1884.

Azure Hâtive 3. _Azure Hâtive_ 2, 4. _Black Perdrigon_ 2, 4. _Blue Gage_
3, 4. Blue Gage 1, 2. _Cooper’s Blue Gage_ 2, 4. _Early Blue_ 3. _Little
Blue Gage_ 2.

An old European variety; rejected by the American Pomological Society in
1858. Fruit of medium size, roundish, dark purple; flesh greenish-yellow,
juicy; flavor brisk and rich; freestone; early.

=Early Cherry.= Cerasifera ×? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 21. 1897.

From California; fruit small, round, red; clingstone; early.

=Early Cluster.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 163, 355. 1895.

Mentioned in the preceding references.

=Early Cross.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 380. 1857.

Originated with a Mr. Cross, Salem, Massachusetts. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit below medium, roundish, reddish-purple; bloom thick;
flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet; clingstone; early.

=Early Favorite.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 314. 1845. =2.=
Elliott _Fr. Book_ 419. 1854. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 395. 1857.
=4.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:11. 1866-73. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889.
=6.= _Guide Prat._ 152, 356. 1895. =7.= _Rev. Hort._ 548, Pl. 1909.

_Early Favorite_ 4, 5, 6. _Early Favourite_ 6. Early Favourite 4.
_Favorite Hâtive_ 7. _Favorite Précoce_ 4, 5, 7. Favorite Précoce 6.
_Favorite Précoce de Rivers_ 5, 6. _Précoce de Rivers_ 5. Prune Early
Favorite 7. _Rivers Early_ 5, 6. _Rivers Early Favorite_ 5. _River’s
Early Favourite_ 5, 6. River’s Early Favourite 3. River’s Early No. 1 1.
_River’s Early No. 1_ 2. Rivers Früh Pflaume 5. _Rivers Frühpflaume_ 6.
_River’s No. 1_ 3, 5.

A seedling of Précoce de Tours raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth,
England, about 1834. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit small,
roundish-oval; suture shallow; bluish-black; dots russet; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet; good; freestone; very early. Mentioned in
the catalog of the American Pomological Society from 1852 to 1891.

=Early Genesee.= Domestica. =1.= _Gen. Farmer_ =9=:232. 1848.

Originated in Brighton, Monroe County, New York. Fruit of medium size,
long-ovate, golden-yellow; very early.

=Early Golden Drop.= Domestica. =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 352. 1891.
=2.= _Cal. Nur. Cat._ 1898.

Early Golden 2.

“Small, bright yellow, sugary and rich; pit free; ripens early.”

=Early Honey.= Angustifolia varians. 1. _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892.
2. Waugh _Plum Cult._ 195. 1901.

From Grayson County, Texas.

=Early Mirabelle.= Insititia. =1.= _Hogg Fruit Man._ 360, 376. 1866. =2.=
_Mas Le Verger_ =6=:1. 1866-73. =3.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 410.
1881. =4.= _Guide Prat._ 152, 360. 1895.

Frühe von Bergthold 3. _Mirabelle Précoce_ 1. Mirabelle Précoce 4,
5. Précoce de Bergthold 1, 2. _Mirabelle de Berthold_ 4. _Précoce de
Bergthold_ 4.

Thought to be of English origin; first noted by Hogg. Resembles the
Mirabelle very closely, with which it is confused. Tree medium in
vigor, very productive; shoots downy; fruit small, nearly round; suture
indistinct; skin pale yellow, specked with red on the sunny side; flesh
yellowish, sweet, juicy, agreeably aromatic; freestone; early.

=Early Minnesota.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:36. 1897. =2.= _S.
Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:17. 1905.

Found wild by Joseph Wood of Windom, Minnesota. Tree low, spreading,
hardy, very productive; fruit small, round, yellowish-red; flesh sweet,
juicy; stone free; very early.

=Early Normandy.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =30=:256. 1875. =2.= _Le
Bon Jard._ 340. 1882.

_Normande précoce_ 2.

Noted in the Horticulturist as originating in France. Tree vigorous;
fruit as large as a Reine Claude, purple on the sunny side, light
flesh-colored on the shady side; bloom light; flesh greenish, fine and
melting, juicy, sweet; good; early.

=Early Pale.= Species? Letter from Burbank.

Originated with Luther Burbank and sold to Judge S. F. Lieb in 1897.

=Early Pear.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 577 fig. 1629. =2.=
Rea _Flora_ 209. 1676.

_Prunum Pyrinum praecox_ 1.

An early strain of White Pear.

=Early Perdrigon.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 151. 1831.
=2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:65. 1832. =3.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1. 1846.
=4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 375. 1866. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 936. 1869.
=6.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:147. 1866-73. =7.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889.
=8.= _Guide Prat._ 153, 361. 1895.

Früher Perdrigon 7. Früher Violetter Perdrigon 7. _Moyeu de Bourgogne_
?7, 8. Perdrigon hâtif 1. _Perdrigon hâtif_ 2, 7, 8. _Perdrigon hâtive_
2. Perdrigon Violet Hâtif 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Prune Perdrigon hâtif 3. _Prunus
Calvellana_ 3.

There are two plums known under this name. Both are small, oval, purplish
and are covered with a thick bloom. One, however, which seems to have
been earliest known, is sweet, rich and of very good quality, ripening
about the middle of August. The second variety was named by Calvel. It
is vastly inferior in quality to the first and ripens in July. Neither
variety is well known in America.

=Early Red.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 160, 162.
1881. =2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =80=:62. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 195.
1901.

Grown by G. Onderdonk of Mission Valley, Victoria County, Texas;
introduced by the originator in 1879. Fruit small, roundish; cavity
large; suture lacking; red; dots few, white; skin thin; flesh soft,
yellow, sprightly; quality fair; clingstone; early.

=Early Red.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887. =2.= _Ia.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farm. Bul._ =43=:33. 1903.
=4.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 310. 1903.

Early Red Russian 3. _Early Red Russian No. 3_ 3. _Krasnaya
Skorospielkaya_ 1. _Mixed Arab_ 2, 3. _No. 3_ 2.

Early Red was imported by J. L. Budd from Dr. Regel, St. Petersburg,
Russia, in the winter of 1881-82. The following season it was
disseminated with a mixed lot of varieties, all of which became badly
confused. Fruit large, oval; cavity small; suture shallow; dark red;
bloom thick; dots white; flesh firm, meaty; quality fair; clingstone;
early.

=Early Royal of Nikita.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 380.
1857. =2.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:25 fig. 13. 1873. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
429, 430, 441, 449. 1889.

_Early Royal of Nikita_ 3. _Frühe Königspflaume Pflaume von Nikita_
3. _Frühe Nikitaer Königspflaume_ 3. _Nikitaner Frühe Königspflaume_
2. Nikitaer Frühe Königspflaume 3. _Nikita’s Frühe Königs Pflaume_ 3.
_Royale Hâtive de Nikita_ 3. _Royal Hâtive de Nikita_ 3. Royale Hâtive de
Nikita 2.

According to Mas this variety originated in Nikita, Crimea. Fruit small,
roundish, reddish-purple; bloom thick; flesh yellow, sweet, juicy; good;
semi-clinging; early.

=Early St. John.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 912. 1869.

_Prune de St. Jean_ 1. _St. Jean_ 1. _St. John_ 1.

Tree vigorous; fruit medium in size, roundish-oblong, reddish-purple;
flesh green, sweet, sprightly; freestone; mid-season.

=Early Transparent Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =17=:286.
1869. =2.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 722. 1884. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 153, 364.
1895. =4.= Rivers _Cat._ 34. 1898. =5.= Bartrum _Pears and Plums_ 63.
1902.

_Early Apricot_ 3. Early Transparent 4. _Early Transparent Gage_ 2, 3.
New Transparent Gage 1. _Reine-Claude Diaphane Hâtive_ 3. Rivers’ Early
Apricot 2. Rivers’ Early Transparent Gage 5.

This seedling of Transparent Gage was raised by Thomas Rivers,
Sawbridgeworth, England, in 1866. Tree hardy, productive, compact;
branchlets pubescent; fruit medium in size, roundish-oblate; suture
shallow; stem slender; yellowish-green, mottled with crimson; flesh
greenish-yellow, firm, juicy; quality high; freestone; early.

=Early Yellow Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ App.
=2=:156. 1876.

Originated with Asahel Foote, Williamstown, Massachusetts. Tree vigorous,
upright, productive; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture
shallow; cavity small; stem slender; pale yellow; bloom thin; flesh
greenish-yellow, rather coarse, juicy, sweet; semi-clinging; early.

=Early Yellow Prune.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =8=:536. 1853.
=2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1854.

Originated in Bedford County, Pennsylvania. Tree vigorous, prolific;
fruit medium, oval; skin yellow; very good; stone free.

=Eason.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629.

Described by Parkinson as “small, red and well tasted.”

=Eberly.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 135. 1905.

Eberly’s Plum 1.

A seedling brought to notice by W. V. Eberly of the California Nursery
Company. Fruit large, oval; cavity small; yellow, occasionally slightly
russeted; dots numerous, silvery; flesh yellowish, translucent; sweet,
rich; good; stone long, flat, free; late.

=Ebon.= Cerasifera ×? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 16. 1899.

Described by Kerr in 1899. Tree upright, with distinct foliage. Fruit
medium in size, round to round-oblong, very dark red; flesh red;
clingstone.

=Ecully.= Domestica. =1.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 364. 1887. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 153, 364. 1895. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 433. 1905.

Reine-Claude d’Ecully 1, 2, 3.

A chance seedling grown by M. Luizet, at Ecully-les-Lyon, France; first
fruited in 1866. Tree vigorous, very productive; fruit large, roundish;
suture deep; halves unequal; cavity deep and rather wide; stem medium in
length; skin yellow, slightly tinged with red; flesh yellowish, fine,
rather firm, juicy, sweet, Reine Claude aroma; good; stone nearly free;
mid-season.

=Eddie.= Species? Letter from J. W. Kerr.

Originated by Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska.

=Edith.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:269. 1900.

A seedling of Iowa Beauty grown by E. L. Hayden, Oakville, Iowa, about
1895. Tree upright, vigorous; fruit medium in size, globular; suture
indistinct; dark red; dots numerous; bloom thick; good; stone of medium
size; mid-season.

=Edle Early.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 411. 1881.
=2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428. 1889.

Edle Frühpflaume 1, 2. _Noble Précoce_ 2.

Found in a garden in Brunswick, Germany. Tree large, productive; fruit
small, oval; suture a line; brownish-red, with gold-colored dots; flesh
golden-yellow, tender, juicy, sweet; freestone; early.

=Edouard Seneclauze.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 361. 1866.

Fruit very small, obovate, golden-yellow; flesh sweet, richly flavored;
freestone; early.

=Eggles.= Triflora × Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:271. 1901.

Sent out by A. L. Bruce, Texas. Fruit large, round; suture indistinct;
bright red; dots many, minute, yellow; flesh yellow; stone oval,
compressed, clinging; poor.

=Eldora.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 333. 1894. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 148. 1901.

A seedling raised by Judge Samuel Miller of Missouri. Tree rapid in
growth; fruit medium to large.

=Eldorado.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:269. 1900. =2.= _Ill.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 135. 1903. =3.= _Ibid._ 426. 1905.

A seedling grown by H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa, who introduced it in
1899. Fruit small, round; suture lacking; yellow overlaid with red; dots
small, grayish; bloom thin; skin thick; flesh firm, yellow, subacid;
clingstone; late.

=Eldridge.= Americana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 42. 1883.

A variety from Wisconsin listed for eight years by the American
Pomological Society.

=Elfrey.= Domestica. =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 234. 1817. =2.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:98. 1832. =3.= _Horticulturist_ =7=:403. 1852. =4.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429. 1889.

_Elfrey’s Prune_ 2. _Elfreth’s Prune_ 2. _Elfry’s Plum_ 4.

Of unknown origin; quite widely disseminated and highly recommended in
the South about fifty years ago. Tree vigorous; fruit medium in size,
oval, blue; flesh greenish, firm, rich, slightly dry; mid-season.

=Elisabeth Pflaume.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429.
1889.

_Elisabeth d’Elsner._ _Elsner’s Elisabeth Pflaume._

=Ella.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:52. 1900.

A seedling of the Peach plum grown at the British Columbia Experimental
Station; not introduced; closely resembles the parent.

=Ellis.= Munsoniana × Hortulana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892.
=2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 231. 1901.

Ellis is said to be a cross between Wild Goose and Golden Beauty, and
to have originated in northern Texas; introduced by T. L. Ellis. Fruit
large, round; skin very thin, red; good; semi-clinging.

=Ellwood.= Domestica. =1.= _Col., O., Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 31. 1892. =2.=
_Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254, 255. 1905.

Elwood 1.

Introduced by Augustine and Company, Normal, Illinois; very similar to
Lombard if not identical with it.

=Elmore.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. & For._ =7=:243. 1894.

An early variety from Shasta, Sacramento County, California.

=Elsner Grüne Zwetsche.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429.
1889.

_Elsner’s Von Gronow Grüne Zwetsche._ _Prune Celeste._

=Elton.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831.

Grown on the grounds of the London Horticultural Society.

=Emerald.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =12=:265. 1889. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 101. 1891. =3.= Smith _Cat._ 35. 1898. =4.= _Can. Hort._
=22=:340. 1899.

Early Green 1, 2, 4.

Originated with Warren Holton, Hamilton, Ontario; supposedly a seedling
of Reine Claude. It was first called Early Green but was introduced by
E. D. Smith of Winona, Ontario, under the name Emerald. Tree hardy and
productive; fruit large, roundish; stem slender; suture medium deep;
yellowish-green; very good; stone free, smooth; very early.

=Emerald.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:270. 1900.
=2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 209. 1901. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 296.
1903. =4.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =114=:133. 1910.

_Burwood_ 4.

Emerald came from a cross between Brittlewood and Burbank made by
Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska, in 1895. Tree resembles an Early
Richmond cherry, hardy, productive; buds conspicuous; fruit large,
roundish, yellow marbled with coppery-red; flesh yellowish, tender,
fibrous, juicy, mild subacid; good.

=Emerald Drop.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 275. 1845. =2.=
_Ibid._ 913. 1869. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:125. 1866-73.

Goutte Emeraude 3.

Emerald Drop is a seedling of Washington grown sometime previous to
1845 by A. J. Downing, Newburgh, New York. Tree moderately vigorous,
productive; fruit of medium size, oval; cavity small; suture distinct,
sides unequal; yellowish-green; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Emerson.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._ =101=:131. 1901.
=2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:63. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 195. 1901.

_Emerson’s Early_ 3.

Found wild in northern Texas; introduced by A. L. Bruce. Fruit small,
round to oval, bright red, with many white dots; flesh yellow, soft;
stone rough, clinging; early.

=Emerson.= Americana. =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 127. 1890.

Originated near Dubuque, Iowa. Tree productive; fruit large, roundish,
red, thickly dotted with small gray spots; flesh firm; valuable for
preserving.

=Emerson Yellow.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 20. 1897. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 195. 1901.

A seedling of the Emerson from Texas. Fruit of medium size, round,
yellow; inferior.

=Emigrant.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 126. 1889. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Cat._ 25. 1897.

A seedling of Lombard. Fruit large, oval, purple; quality fair;
mid-season.

=Emily May.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:269. 1900.

A large attractive plum of the Pond type grown by Lillian A. Trotter,
Owen Sound, Ontario, Canada. Fruit large, oval; suture well marked; clear
light yellow; bloom thin; flesh firm, juicy, delicate; good; stone small,
rough, free.

=Emma.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:269. 1900. =2.= Terry _Cat._
1900.

Grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, in 1896. Fruit medium in size,
almost round; skin thin, reddish color; good; stone large, clinging.

=Engle.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich Sta. Bul._ =129=:32, 33. 1896. =2.=
_Ibid._ =187=:77, 78. 1901. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 311. 1903.

Fruit below medium size, roundish-oval; suture obscure; skin yellow;
flesh firm, yellow, flavor rich; very good; very early.

=Empereur.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:63. 1866-73. =2.= Mathieu
_Nom. Pom._ 429. 1889.

_Empereur de Mas_ 2.

Grown by M. Mas, France, from a seed of Golden Drop sown in 1850;
reported in 1861 under the name Empereur. Fruit large, obovate; suture
indistinct; skin tender, purple, streaked with deeper purple; flesh clear
yellow, melting, juicy, sweet; stone small, clinging; early.

=Emperor of Japan.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429. 1889.

_Empereur du Japan_ 1. _Emperor of Japan_ 1. _Kaiser Von Japan_ 1.

Mathieu found reference to it in _Pomologische Monatshefte_ 134. 1882 and
_Obst-Garten_ 322. 1882.

=Esjum Erik.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. Dept. Agr. Pom. Bul._ =10=:21. 1901.

Esjum Erik is an Old World variety imported by the United States
Department of Agriculture in 1900. As tested at this Station it appears
to be of little value for New York growers. Tree vigorous, unproductive;
fruit small, obovate, necked; cavity nearly lacking; suture a line;
purplish-black; bloom thick; dots inconspicuous; flesh greenish-yellow,
juicy, firm, sweetish, mild; quality not high; stone small, oval, dark
colored, clinging; mid-season.

=Essex Bullace.= Insititia. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144. 1831. =2.=
Hogg _Fruit Man._ 689. 1884. =3.= Rivers _Cat._ 37. 1909.

New Large Bullace 1, 3. _New Large Bullace_ 2.

Tree vigorous, very productive; fruit large, roundish, greenish-yellow;
flesh juicy; late.

=Esslinger Fruhzwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429.
1889. =2.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 473. 1894. _Quetsche Précoce
d’Esslingen_ 1.

Tree vigorous; an early and abundant bearer; fruit of medium size,
bluish-black; bloom light; valuable for dessert and drying.

=Esther.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 287. 1887. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892. =3.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =4.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 173. 1901.

A seedling of Miner, grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; first fruited
in 1885. Fruit medium in size, round-oval; suture a line; dark red; dots
numerous; bloom thin; flesh yellow; good; stone oval, clinging; late.

=Etopa.= _Prunus besseyi_ × Triflora. _Cir. S. Dak. Exp. Sta._ 1910.

Introduced in 1908 by the originator, N. E. Hansen of the South Dakota
Experiment Station. It is a cross of Occident with _Prunus besseyi_ in
which the dark purplish flesh of the male parent is conspicuous.

=Etta.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900. =2.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =3.=
_Wis. Sta. Bul._ =85=:13. 1901.

A seedling first fruited in 1895 by H. A. Terry, Iowa. Fruit large,
nearly round; suture distinct; skin yellow, striped and splashed with
red; flesh sweet, rich; good; stone oval, free; mid-season.

=Eureka.= Nigra. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:270. 1900.

Grown in 1896 by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska, from seed of
Cheney. Tree upright, vigorous, unproductive; fruit large; roundish,
yellowish-red to purple; flesh firm, juicy; good; clingstone; very early.

=Eureka.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =5=:148. 1869.

Similar to Wild Goose.

=Eva.= Nigra. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

From Manitoba; tested at the Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest
Territory, Canada. Fruit small, red; excellent; mid-season.

=Evelyn.= Domestica. =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 73. 1894. =2.= _Can.
Exp. Farms Rpt._ 137. 1894.

A seedling grown in the neighborhood of Owen’s Sound, Canada; of local
reputation.

=Excelsior Damson.= Insititia. =1.= _Green River Cat._ 1899.

A freestone introduced in 1892 by the Green River Nursery Company and
described in their catalog as being a particularly fine strain of the
Damson.

=Fairchild.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:271. 1900. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 148. 1901.

A seedling of De Soto supposed to have been fertilized by a wild plum;
grown by J. H. Fairchild, Iowa, in 1894 and offered for sale in 1899 by
Snyder and Son, Center Point, Iowa. Fruit above medium, roundish-oval,
yellowish-red with whitish dots; flesh yellow, firm, juicy; quality fair;
mid-season.

=Fancy.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:271. 1900.

From a sprout of Wild Goose, originating with John Brown, Oakville,
Louisa County, Iowa, in 1885. Tree vigorous, very prolific; fruit large,
oblong, yellow with shading of red; bloom thin; flesh sweet, juicy; good;
stone small, clinging; mid-season.

=Fanning.= Munsoniana. =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 185. 1901.

A chance seedling found in the yard of a Mr. Fanning, Rockdale, Texas.
Fruit medium in size, round-oval, bright red; dots numerous; flesh
yellow; quality fair; stone oval, clinging; mid-season.

=Fawn.= Munsoniana. =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 231. 1901.

A variety first grown by David Miller of Camp Hill, Cumberland County,
Pennsylvania. Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture a line; bright red;
dots numerous, large, yellow, giving a dappled or fawn color; bloom very
thin; flesh yellow; quality fair; stone oval, clinging.

=Femmonzi.= Species? =1.= Coates _Cat._ 1910-11.

A variety first grown by Frank Femmons of Ahwahnee, California, and
introduced by the Leonard Coates Nursery Company, Morganhill, California,
in the fall of 1910. Said to be large and handsome.

=Field Marshall.= Domestica. =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 257. 1832. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 293. 1845. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 426. 1854.

Corse’s Field Marshall 1, 2. _Corse’s Field Marshal_ 3.

A seedling raised by Henry Corse of Montreal, Canada. Fruit large, oval,
bright purplish-red; cavity shallow; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy,
subacid; stone long, pointed, clinging.

=Figue Grosse Rouge.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831.

_Wilmots Early_ 1.

Fruit large, obovate; purple; freestone; quality medium; mid-season.

=Fin de Siecle.= Nigra. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory,
Canada. Tree productive; fruit large; red; flavor fair; early.

=Fine Bonte.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 913. 1869. =2.= Mas
_Le Verger_ =6=:35. 1866-73. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429. 1889.

Feine und Gute 3. _Fine Bonte_ 3.

Originated in the nurseries of Simon Louis, Moselle, France. Fruit small,
irregularly ovate; suture indistinct; purple; bloom thin; stem very
short, thick; flesh greenish yellow; very good; stone small, free; very
early.

=Fine Early Plum.= Domestica. Mentioned in Forsyth _Treat Fr. Trees_ 21.
1803.

=Firba Konigspflaume.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429.
1889.

=Firbas Frühe Schuttenhoferin.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429.
1889.

Mathieu found mention of it in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 287. 1884.

=First.= Species? =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 1899. =2.= _Ibid._ 1901. =3.= _Ga.
Sta. Bul._ =68=:36. 1905.

No. 31,288 1.

According to the originator, Luther Burbank, this variety is one of the
second generation of a combination cross of Hawkeye, Hammer, Milton,
Wyant, Wayland and Burbank. It was introduced in 1899 under the breeding
number 31,288, but grafting wood was not offered for sale until 1900.
This is probably one of the earliest plums, ripening in California about
three weeks before Red June. Fruit medium in size, roundish; stem short,
slender; yellow with faint blush; flesh yellow, sweet, juicy; earliest.

=First Best.= Species? =1.= Childs _Cat._ 136. 1910.

First Best was grown by R. D. Hoyt of Clearwater, Florida, in 1894 from
seed marked “Hill Plum” received from W. Gollen of Saharanfur, India.
The tree first fruited in 1904 and was introduced in the spring of 1910
by John Lewis Childs, Floral Park, New York, who states that it is an
unusually early, yellow variety.

=First Sweet.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at the Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory, Canada.
Tree productive; fruit of medium size; skin red, thin; flavor excellent;
early.

=Fitzroy.= Americana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 119. 1904.

A seedling of Rollingstone grown at the Central Experimental Farm,
Canada. Fruit above medium, roundish, slightly heart-shaped; suture a
line; skin yellow washed with red; dots many; bloom moderate; flesh pale
yellow, juicy, sweet; good; stone nearly free; cracks when ripe.

=Flora Plena.= Americana =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894-97.

J. W. Kerr, the introducer, found this plum in the yard of a friend in
York County, Pennsylvania, it having been brought from Iowa. Tree dwarf;
blooms profusely with beautiful pure white, very double flowers; no fruit.

=Flushing Bulleis.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629.

Noted by Parkinson as a variety producing fruit in clusters like a bunch
of grapes.

=Foote.= Insititia. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =35=:21. 1906.

Fruit small, roundish-oblong; skin black; flesh rather dry,
greenish-yellow; stone small, oval, clinging; mid-season.

=Foote.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =20=:324. 1865. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 913. 1869. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:77. 1873.

_Foote’s Early Orleans_ 3. Foote’s Early Orleans 1, 2, 3. Monsieur Hâtif
de Foote 3.

A seedling of Wilmot’s Early Orleans raised in 1852 by Asahel Foote of
Williamstown, Massachusetts. Tree large and vigorous; fruit of medium
size, roundish-oval; suture absent; very black; flesh greenish, juicy;
good; stone oval, flattened, clinging; very early.

=Foote Golden Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 914. 1869.

Raised by Asahel Foote, Williamstown, Massachusetts. Tree very vigorous;
shoots slightly downy; fruit large, nearly round; suture shallow; stalk
slender; cavity small; skin golden-yellow, obscurely splashed with green
and tinged with red; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, slightly vinous; very
good; stone slightly adherent; mid-season.

=Forest Rose Improved.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
=113=:154. 1899.

An improved strain of Forest Rose somewhat larger than the original.

=Forewattamie.= Hortulana mineri × Munsoniana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._
=67=:11. 1898. =2.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900.

A cross between Forest Garden and Pottawattamie grown by Theodore
Williams, Benson, Nebraska. J. W. Kerr, after testing it, states that it
disclosed no special merits; fruit below medium, oval, dull red; flesh
watery; poor.

=Formosa.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Fancher Creek Nur. Cat._ 7. 1907-8. =2.=
_Fancher Creek Nur. Cat., Burbank’s Late Introductions._ fig. 1909.

_Wickson Challenge_ 1.

Grown by Luther Burbank, who states that it is of mixed parentage,
including probably from fifteen to eighteen varieties. Tree very vigorous
and productive; fruit large, oval to slightly cordate; suture very
prominent; cavity medium; rich yellow with light bloom turning to clear
red at maturity; flesh pale yellow, firm, sweet, rich, apricot flavor;
good; stone semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Forward Damask.= Domestica. Mentioned in Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 70. 1699.

=Frankfort Peach.= Domestica. =1.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 572. 1876. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd App. 180. 1881. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430.
1889.

_Francfort Peach_ 3. Frankfurter Pfirschen Zwetsche 3. _Kuchen Pflaume_
3. _Quetsche de Francfort_ 3. _Quetsche-Pêche de Francfort_ 3.

Tree spreading, productive; fruit of medium size, oval, compressed;
suture shallow; cavity small; black; bloom thick; flesh yellow, coarse,
juicy, sweet, good; stone oval, thin, free; mid-season.

=Franklin.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:223. 1899. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 210, 211 fig. 1901.

Originated with A. L. Bruce, Texas, from Abundance crossed with an
unknown variety. Fruit of medium size, oblate; suture a line; bright
crimson over yellow; dots numerous; bloom thin; flesh yellow; good;
clingstone.

=Fraser.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Gard._ =22=:606. 1901. =2.= _Gard. Chron._
=30=:120. 1901.

Fraser’s Early Yellow 1.

Raised in the nursery of John Fraser, Woodford, England, about 1895. Tree
small; fruit very small, oval; skin bright yellow; flesh soft; flavor
poor; freestone; valuable because of its earliness.

=Freeman.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 276. 1893. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =87=:13. 1901.

Freeman’s Favorite 1.

Originated in 1885 with H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, from seed of
Wild Goose. Tree vigorous, fairly productive; fruit above medium,
roundish-oblong; suture distinct; bright crimson, numerous dots on the
lower half; flesh very tender, sprightly; good; clingstone; early.

=Freestone.= Species? =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 424. 1905.

An inferior native variety; fruit small; clingstone; mid-season.

=Freestone.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

A seedling grown by H. A. Terry from seed of Harrison. Fruit large, pale
yellow becoming light red at full maturity; good; stone semi-clinging.

=Freestone Goose.= Munsoniana. =1.= Stark _Cat._ 29. 1910.

Originated by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska, and introduced by
Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri, in 1910. The fruit is said to be
larger and darker colored than the Wild Goose.

=Freestone Quetsche.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:209. 1898.

Imported by the Department of Agriculture and noted as vigorous.

=Friedheim Damascene.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430.
1889.

_Friedheim’s Rote Früh Damascene._ _Damas Rouge de Friedheim._

=Fritze Herrnpflaume.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430.
1889.

=Frostproof.= Cerasifera. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =13=:369. 1900. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 231. 1901.

Grown and introduced by J. H. G. Jenkins, Spring Garden, Missouri, about
1896. Fruit small, spherical; suture a fine line; dark crimson; dots
minute; bloom thin; flesh yellow; good; clingstone; very early; blossoms
resistant to frosts.

=Frühe Englische Zwetsche.= Domestica. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430.
1889.

=Frühe Gelbe Reine Claude.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
430. 1889.

_Frühe Gelbe Kaiser Pflaume._

=Frühe Grüne Zwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
445. 1881. 2. Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430. 1889.

_Bischtin Erik_ 2. _Herr Pflaume_ 2.

A German variety said to be suitable for moist soils.

=Frühe Leipziger Damascene.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430. 1889.

_Damas de Leipsick_ 1. _Fondante Noire_ 1.

Mathieu suggests that this may possibly be identical with Précoce de
Tours.

=Fuller.= Species? =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:37. 1897.

Fuller’s Egg 1.

Reported by B. A. Matthews, Knoxville, Iowa, as a large, oval plum.

=Fulton.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 382. 1857. =2.=
_Cultivator_ =5=:373. 1857.

A variety of uncertain origin found at Johnstown, Fulton County, New
York. Tree vigorous and productive; fruit of medium size, oval; suture
distinct; bright yellow; juicy; good; late and hangs to the tree well.

=Funk.= Triflora ×? =1.= Munson _Cat._ 8. 1902. 2. _Tex. Dept. Agr. Rpt._
=12=:102. 1910.

Funk’s Early 2.

An accidental cross of Abundance raised by J. M. Funk, Grayson County,
Texas. Tree vigorous, upright, prolific; fruit medium, heart-shaped,
bright red; clingstone; very early.

=Fürst Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 361. 1866. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 913. 1869. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 127, 129. 1901. =4.=
_Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:51. 1900.

Eugene Fürst 1, 2. Eugen Fürst 3. Fürst’s Damson 4. _Quetsche Précoce de
Fürst_ 2. _Sweet Damson_ 1, 2.

This plum is frequently confused with the Furst. The origin of the name
and variety is unknown. According to Waugh, it is a German variety
introduced in America about sixty years ago. Foliage Damson-like; fruit
small, pear-shaped, with a neck; cavity shallow, abrupt; stem slender;
suture obsolete; apex slightly pointed; skin tough, purplish-black; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, slightly acid; quality fair to good; stone nearly
free.

=Gabriel Combes.= Domestica. =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 332, Pl. 1895.

Prune Reine-Claude Gabriel Combes 1.

Of French origin, probably a seedling of the Reine Claude; first
mentioned in 1895. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit spheroidal-ovoid,
large, purple; cavity very small; suture slight; apex pointed; flesh
amber-yellow, fine, juicy, sweet, aromatic, excellent; stone small, free;
ripens after Reine Claude.

=Galbraith.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =8=:536. 1853. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 382. 1857.

Said to have originated with a Mr. Galbraith near Boalsburg,
Pennsylvania. Tree straggling; fruit of medium size, oval, purple; flesh
tender, juicy; good; clingstone; early.

=Gale.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897-1900. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:37. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 149. 1901.

Gale Seedling 2. _Gale Seedling_ 3. _Gale’s No. 3_ 1.

Introduced about 1890 by I. Gale & Son, Waukesha, Wisconsin. Tree
overbears; fruit below medium, roundish, compressed; suture distinct;
apex slightly truncate; dull red; skin thin; flesh yellow, soft; quality
fair; stone thick, rounded, nearly free; very early.

=Galena.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:37. 1897. 2. Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 149. 1901.

Introduced by Charles Luedloff, Cologne, Minnesota. Fruit large, oval;
yellow ground covered with red.

=Galopin.= Domestica. =1.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 367. 1895. =2.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 102. 1901.

_Violette de Galopin_ 2. Violette Galopin 1.

A European variety. Tree poor; fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity
shallow; stem short, thick; suture shallow; blue; many conspicuous dots;
flesh yellow; quality medium; stone of medium size, oval, slightly
necked, nearly free.

=Garden King.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:273. 1900. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 149. 1901.

Found wild in 1853; in 1861 it was put under cultivation by Judge Elias
Topliff of De Soto, Wisconsin, and subsequently turned over to A. R.
Prescott, Postville, Iowa, who introduced it in 1896. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit medium, oval, scarlet; flesh sweet, juicy; freestone.

=Garfield.= Hortulana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:48, 86. 1892. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 179. 1901. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:254, 255. 1905.

Reported to have been found wild in Ohio; introduced by Leo Welz,
Wilmington, Ohio, in 1887. Tree unproductive, lacking in hardiness;
fruit small, oval; stem slender; cavity shallow; suture a line; bright
red; bloomless; flesh yellow, juicy, acid; quality fair; stone small,
long-oval, pointed, clinging; late.

=Garlick.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831. =2.= _Mag.
Hort._ =9=:164. 1843.

Garlick’s Early 1, 2.

Fruit small, obovate, purple; good; freestone; obsolete.

=Garnet.= Triflora × Cerasifera. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt. Pom._ 45. 1895.
=2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 211. 1901.

Found by J. L. Breece, Fayetteville, North Carolina, under a Kelsey tree
which was probably pollinated from a Pissardi growing near, the foliage
showing the reddish color of the Pissardi; first fruited in 1892. Fruit
large, roundish-oval, dark garnet-red with minute russet dots; cavity
small; suture indistinct; skin thin and bitter; flesh yellow with a tinge
of red; flavor mild; stone medium, oval, clinging; more valuable as an
ornamental than for its fruit.

=Gates.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:38. 1897.

Originated at Owatonna, Minnesota. Fruit medium in size, flattened;
suture distinct; very dull red; dots numerous, yellow; skin thick; flesh
yellow; quality fair; stone distinctly margined; late.

=Gaunt.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 577 fig. 1629. =2.=
Rea _Flora_ 208. 1676.

Described in 1629 by Parkinson as “large, reddish, waterish, late.”

=Gaviota.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _Fancher Creek Nur. Cat._ 1907.
=2.= _Fancher Creek Nur. Cat., Burbank’s Late Introductions._ fig. 1909.

_Rice Seed_ 1.

Originated with Luther Burbank about 1900; probably contains admixtures
of other species than the ones mentioned above. Tree vigorous,
productive, late blooming; fruit very large, oval; suture shallow; cavity
medium; dark red over yellow ground; flesh yellow, firm, sweet, aromatic;
good; stone extremely small; mid-season.

=Gaylord.= Americana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 441. 1889. =2.= _Wis. Sta.
Bul._ =63=:24, 38 fig. 1897. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:273. 1900.

Found growing wild by David Hardman, Nora Springs, Iowa, in 1854;
introduced by Edson Gaylord of the same place about 1890. Tree vigorous
with a tendency to overbear; fruit of medium size, oval; cavity small;
stem short; suture a line; apex slightly pointed; dull red over yellow;
bloom thin; dots numerous, minute; skin thick, bitter; flesh yellow,
melting; good; stone large, oval, flat, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Gaylord Gold.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:273. 1900.

Found wild in Rock Grove, Iowa, about 1870 by John Henry, Nora Springs,
Iowa; cions subsequently distributed by Edson Gaylord. Fruit of medium
size, golden yellow; good; stone small, free; mid-season.

=Gelbe Damascener Pflaume.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889.

Reference taken by Mathieu from _Obst-Garten_ 315. 1883.

=Gelbe Jerusalempflaume.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889.

_Jaune de Jerusalem_ 1. _Prune de Jerusalem_ 1.

A variety of doubtful merit and different from Yellow Jerusalem.

=Gelbe Kirschpflaume.= Cerasifera. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432.
1889.

_Cerisette Blanche._ _Myrobalan Jaune._ _Prunus Cerasifera Zanthocarpa._
_Serdali Irek._

=Gelbe Spatzwetsche.= Species? Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432. 1889.

_Reitzensteiner Gelbe Zwetsche_ incor. _Quetsche Jaune Tardive._

=Gem.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 915. 1869.

Originated near Albany, New York. Fruit small, round; suture and cavity
shallow; mottled with purple; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; clingstone.

=Gem.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

The Gem 1.

A seedling of Lottie grown by H. A. Terry; introduced by P. W. Meneray,
Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit of medium size, oblong, red and yellow, with
whitish bloom; good; freestone.

=Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432.
1889.

_Bauern Pflaume._ _Gelber Bidling._ _Krieke._ _Prunus Lutea._ _Spelge._
_Spilge._ _Spindel Pflaume._

=Gentleman.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:41. 1873.

Probably of American origin as it was sent by Downing to M. Mas, but
was not described by the American author. Tree vigorous, productive;
fruit medium, oval; suture indistinct; skin thick, intense purple; bloom
abundant; stem short; flesh yellowish, juicy, vinous; good; freestone;
early.

=Georgia.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:153. 1899. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 212. 1901.

_Normand No. 20_ 1, 2.

One of the several seedlings sent out by J. L. Normand, Marksville,
Louisiana. Named by L. H. Bailey in 1899. Fruit small, oval,
greenish-yellow covered with bright red; flesh yellow, watery, fibrous,
sweet; stone large, strongly clinging; fruit drops while green; worthless.

=Gerishes Seedling.= Domestica. Mentioned in Johnson _Cat._

_Early Bradshaw._

=Gersepflaume.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889.

Reference taken by Mathieu from _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 287. 1884.

=Ghiston.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 276. 1845. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Cat._ 222, 244. 1858.

Ghiston’s Early 1, 2.

Fruit large, oval, yellow; bloom thin; flesh yellow; quality poor;
freestone; season early; rejected by the American Pomological Society in
1858.

=Gibson.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =25=:319. 1870.

Gibson’s Seedling.

A seedling from W. L. Gibson of Elmira, New York. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit of medium size, deep amber color; bloom slight; skin
thick, very astringent; flesh sweet, juicy, mild; good.

=Gill.= Domestica. =1.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =94=:58. 1909.

Introduced by S. R. Gill, Port Clinton, Ohio, who received it in 1882
from a nursery with Golden Drop trees. Tree vigorous, spreading and
productive; fruit medium in size, round, reddish-purple; bloom light;
flesh firm, sweet, rich; good; mid-season; excellent for canning.

=Gisborne.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831. =2.=
_Horticulturist_ =10=:16. 1855. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._. =2=:49. 1873. =4.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432. 1889.

De Gisborne 3. Gisborne’s 1. _Gisborne’s_ 3. Gisborne’s Early 2.
_Gisborne’s Early_ 2, 4. _Gisborne’s Zwetsche_ 3. Gisbornes Zwetsche 4.
Ovalrunde Spreckel Pflaume 4. _Paterson’s_ 1, 4.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit of medium size, oval; suture indistinct;
skin golden-yellow, dotted with cherry-red on the sunny side, with pale
bloom; flesh bright yellow, juicy, sweet; stone large, oval, free;
mid-season.

=Glaister.= Domestica. =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 358. 1891.

A variety from California introduced by Leonard Coates of Napa,
California. Fruit very similar to Yellow Egg, but two weeks earlier.

=Gloire d’Epinay.= Domestica. =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 444. 1898. =2.= _Ibid._
86. 1899.

A sucker from a chance seedling found about 1850 by M. Donon of Epinay,
France; named and presented to the National Society of Horticulture
in 1898 by M. Gorion. Fruit above medium size, roundish-oval; suture
shallow; deep blue; similar to Monsieur, but is later and ripens over a
period of nearly two months.

=Gloire de Louveciennes.= Insititia. =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 650. 1900. =2.=
_Ibid._ 476, fig. 1901.

Mirabelle Gloire de Louveciennes 1, 2.

Noted in the _Revue Horticole_ as a Mirabelle introduced in 1900 by M.
Lecointe. Fruit similar to Mirabelle de Nancy in shape and form, but
larger; skin citron-yellow, dotted and shaded with red on the sunny side;
flesh firm, very sweet, like the Apricot in flavor.

=Gloria.= Americana mollis. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 119. 1904.

A seedling of Wolf; fruit large, oval; cavity narrow; suture a line;
bright red or yellow mottled with red; dots few; bloom light; skin thick,
tough; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; good; stone large, nearly free;
variety promising.

=Gloucestershire Violet.= Domestica. =1.= _Jour. Hort._ =17=:285. 1888.

_Minsterworth_ 1. _Prince_ 1.

A very old variety first known as Prince; it is grown largely on the
banks of the Severn, England, where it is propagated from seed or from
root-suckers. Fruit small, oval, with slight tendency to a neck; suture
distinct; dark mahogany; bloom thin; flesh greenish, tender, sweet,
pleasant; stone small; free.

=Glow.= Maritima × Subcordata × Americana × Nigra. =1.= Burbank _Cat._
14. 1911.

From crosses of the species named Burbank grew this variety. Tree of
medium size; branches slender and drooping. Fruit large, round, crimson,
dotted with yellow; flesh orange color, rich; good; freestone; late.

=G. No. 4.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:347. 1890. 2. _Mich.
Sta. Bul._ =177=:42, 43. 1899.

G. No. 44 Jones (unpublished).

In 1890, Herbert A. Jones, Himrods, New York, sent this variety to a
few experiment stations for testing. Fruit of medium size, roundish;
suture very shallow; cavity medium deep; stem slender; skin thin; dark
purple; bloom thick; dots numerous, sometimes irregular, russet; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, firm, sourish; poor; clingstone; mid-season;
variety not worth propagating.

=Goff.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

Prof. Goff 1.

A seedling of Hawkeye grown by H. A. Terry; introduced by F. W. Meneray,
Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit large, red over yellow; good; clingstone.

=Gold.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:273.
1900. =3.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Golden 3.

A variety from H. A. Terry not to be confused with the Golden of Burbank
(Gold of Stark Brothers). Fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity shallow,
small; orange-yellow and red; bloom thin; skin rather thick, astringent;
flesh yellow, firm, meaty, subacid; good; clingstone.

=Gold Coin.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

An unknown variety mentioned by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, as the
parent of Coinage.

=Gold Colored.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:39. 1897. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 150. 1901.

From Edson Gaylord, Gaylord, Iowa. Fruit of medium size, bright yellow;
stone small, free.

=Golden Cluster.= Domestica. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 93. 1885.

A seedling from Henry Corse of Montreal. Tree slow in growth, with long
internodes; fruit of medium size, egg-shaped; hanging in dense clusters
by firmly adherent stems; gold, tinged with brown; flesh firm, pleasant;
ripening season long.

=Golden Gage.= Domestica. _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:611. 1893.

Golden Gage is a seedling of Golden Drop grown by J. T. Macomber, Grand
Isle, Vermont. Fruit small, oval; cavity shallow; suture a line; apex
round; skin thin; pale yellow with red specks; bloom thin; dots small;
flesh yellow, very sweet; good; stone oval, slightly necked; free;
mid-season; of little commercial importance because of inferior size and
color.

=Golden Gem.= Species?

A variety originating from seed with P. P. Dawson, Payette, Idaho.

=Golden Prolific.= Species? =1.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:116. 1898.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit medium, yellow; very good; clingstone;
poor shipper.

=Golden Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 360. 1891. =2.=
_Cal. Sta. Bd. Hort._ 112. 1891. =3.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 291. 1893. =4.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 105. 1901.

Golden 2.

Grown by Seth Lewelling, Milwaukee, Oregon, from a seed of the Italian
Prune; mentioned in the last two catalogs of the American Pomological
Society. Fruit large, oval; cavity small, round, shallow, abrupt; stem
short; suture shallow; apex depressed, sometimes cracking; light yellow;
bloom thin; dots numerous, yellow; skin thin; flesh yellow, firm, tender,
juicy; good; stone of medium size, long-oval, nearly free; mid-season.

=Golden Queen.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =2.= Ill. Hort. Soc.
Rpt. 426. 1905.

Originated with H. A. Terry; first fruited in 1897. Tree characterized by
its luxuriant foliage; fruit large, roundish-oblong, golden-yellow; good;
said to be valuable for dessert.

=Golden Transparent.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. World_ =10=:448. 1893. =2.=
Rivers _Cat._ 34. 1898. =3.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 157. 1901.

From Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England; closely allied to the
Transparent Gage, but is distinctly later and more golden in color; an
excellent dessert plum.

=Goldsmith.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831.

Goldsmith’s Vienna.

=Gondin.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432. 1889.

Pflaume Von Gondin. _Prune de Gondin._

=Gonne.= Domestica. =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =6=:15, Pl. 1858. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 917. 1869. =3.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 409. 1881.

Gonne’s Rothe Pflaume 3. Prune Gonne 1. _Prune Gonne_ 2.

Originated by Dr. Gonne of Fleurus, Belgium. Oberdieck gives the Gonne’s
Rothe Pflaume, which is evidently the same variety, as a seedling of
the Red Egg. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, obovate, sometimes
spherical; suture shallow to deep; carmine-red, dotted with russet; flesh
yellow, juicy, melting, sweet; the pit lies in a large cavity, nearly
free; mid-season.

=Goose-Dye.= Species? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 11. 1900.

A supposed hybrid between the Wild Goose plum and Dyehouse cherry grown
by Theodore Williams. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit larger than Wild
Goose, oval, cherry-red; clingstone; mid-season; said to be free from rot.

=Goose-O.= Munsoniana × Triflora. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 11. 1900.

A cross between Wild Goose and Ogon made by Theodore Williams, Benson,
Nebraska. Tree suckers badly; fruit of medium size, roundish, red on a
yellow ground; clingstone; mid-season.

=Gordon.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 46. 1897.

_Gordon No. 3_ 1.

A seedling of Imperial Gage. Fruit of medium size, roundish; yellow
overspread with coppery-red; bloom profuse; skin acid; flesh rich,
yellow, meaty, juicy, subacid; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Gordon Castle.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =26=:364. 1866. =2.=
_Garden_ =54=:318. 1898.

A plum of the Reine Claude type which originated at Gordon Castle,
England. Fruit large, obovate; greenish-yellow overspread with a reddish
blush; flesh firm, sweet; good; mid-season.

=Gorman.= Species? Mentioned in _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 169. 1909.

=Govalle.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:14. 1898. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 215. 1901.

Grown by Joseph Breck, Texas, supposedly from the Kelsey. Introduced by
F. T. Ramsey in 1898. Fruit medium, oval; cavity shallow; bright red;
flesh slightly soft, fibrous, sprightly; good; clingstone; early.

=Grace.= Americana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 74. 1895.

Originated with W. R. Grace, Garden City, Kansas. Fruit of medium size,
oblong, yellow striped with red, mottled and washed with dull purple;
flesh yellow, melting, juicy; flavor rich, sweet; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Grand Précoce.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 357. 1895.

Mentioned in the preceding references.

=Graugrüne Frühpflaume.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 432. 1889.

Mathieu found the variety referred to in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 287.
1884.

=Gray Damask.= Insititia. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 70. 1699.

Mentioned by Quintinye as “a round plum of a gray color.”

=Grayson.= Munsoniana × Americana. =1.= Sherman _Cat._ 1897. =2.= _Vt.
Sta. Rpt._ =12=:225. 1899.

A seedling of Wild Goose crossed with some Americana; from A. L. Bruce,
Basin Springs, Texas, about 1893. Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture
a line; clear red; dots many, conspicuous, yellow; bloom heavy; flesh
yellow, soft; good; clingstone; season follows Wild Goose.

=Great Bearer.= Domestica. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 56. 1878.

Corse’s Great Bearer 1.

Undoubtedly originated with Henry Corse of Montreal, Canada. Fruit small,
light blue; flavor fair; very prolific.

=Greely.= Domestica. =1.= _Me. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 130. 1888. =2.= _Ibid._
144. 1889. =3.= _Rural N. Y._ =55=:512. 1896.

Greeley 1, 3.

Captain Eliphalet Greely of Portland, Maine, secured the original tree
from Montreal; introduced by O. K. Gerrish of Portland. A large, purple
plum so closely resembling Bradshaw that some growers believe them to be
identical; its season seems to be earlier than Bradshaw.

=Greenfield.= Domestica. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1878.

A seedling of Red Magnum Bonum raised by Mr. Greenfield of Canada. Tree
hardy, productive; fruit large, red.

=Green Indian.= Domestica. =1.= Willich _Dom. Enc._ 195. 1903.

_White Indian_ 1.

Reported in 1803 as a very desirable variety.

=Green Italian.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3d App. 181.
1869.

From Germany; tree moderately vigorous, fairly productive; fruit
medium, oval; suture a line; greenish-yellow splashed with green; bloom
thin; cavity small; flesh green, coarse, juicy, sweet, rich; good;
semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Green Oysterly.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 577 fig., 578.
1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_ 207. 1676.

Described as roundish, of medium size, greenish, juicy, flavor
“reasonably good.”

=Green Perdrigon.= Domestica. =1.= Rea _Flora_ 208. 1676.

Described by Rea nearly two hundred and fifty years ago as “a round plum,
of medium size, green; flavor good.”

=Green Pescod.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629.

Parkinson states that “this plum is of medium size, pointed; mid-season.”

=Grelck.= Cerasifera. =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 358. 1891.

Supposedly a seedling grown by John Grelck of Los Angeles, California,
who gave it to O. S. Chapin of San Diego County about 1883. Fruit small,
round, light yellow with reddish shade, sprightly; good; season before
Myrobalan; decidedly superior to Myrobalan.

=Gros Damas de Tours.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 70. 1699.
=2.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:69. 1768. =3.= Knoop _Fructologie_
=2=:56. 1771. =4.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 19. 1803. =5.= Willich
_Dom. Enc._ =4=:300. 1803. =6.= Miller _Gard. Dict._ 3. 1807. =7.= _Lond.
Hort. Soc. Cat._ 145, 147. 1831. =8.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:86. 1832.
=9.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 917. 1869. =10.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 433.
1889.

_Damas de Tours_ 10. Damas de Tours Gros 7. _Damas de Tours Gros_ 8, 9,
10. Damas gros de Tours 3. Damas Violet of Tours 4. Great Violet Damask
de Tours 5. _Great Damask Violet of Tours_ 6, 10. Great Damask Violet of
Tours 9. Great Plum of Tours 7. Great Violet Tours Damask 1. Gros Damas
6. Grosse Damascene von Tours 10. _Gros Damas de Tours_ 8, 9, 10. _Gros
Damas Violet de Tours_ 6. Largest Damask of Tours 8. _Largest Damask of
Tours_ 9, 10.

For historical notes and description see Précoce de Tours.

=Gros Damas Noir.= Domestica? =1.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:500.
1860.

A small mediocre plum mentioned by Noisette as ripening the last of July.

=Grosse Hâtive de Rodt.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 433.
1889.

=Grosse Marange.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 433. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 156, 357. 1895.

_Hâtive d’Augny_ 1, 2.

This variety was grown by M. Chabardin of Augny near Metz, France,
where it is considered very promising because of its high quality
and earliness. Fruit medium in size, roundish; purplish; flesh
yellowish-green, sweet; quality best of its season; very early.

=Grosse Rosspauke.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434. 1889.

Mathieu found it noted in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 287. 1884.

=Grosse Surpasse.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:52.
1900. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 432. 1905.

A small round plum tested at British Columbia Experimental Farm; yellow;
flesh yellow, tender, sweet, pleasant; stone small, clinging; mid-season.

=Grosse Violette de Grugliasco.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 434. 1889.

=Grüne Dattel Zwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
444. 1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434. 1889.

_Berliner Pflaume 2._ _Datte Verte_ 2. Grüne Dattelzwetsche 1. _Grüne
Insel Pflaume_ 2 incor. _Susina Verdachia Longa_ 2. _Weisse Indische
Pflaume_ 2.

Mentioned in the preceding references. Grünliche Dattelpflaume von
Besançon is given by _Guide Pratique_, 1895, as a synonym of the Yellow
Egg.

=Grüne Herzformige.= Domestica. =1.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:30, Tab. 176
fig. 1. 1796.

Die grüne herzförmige Pflaume 1. Prune coeur de pigeon verd 1.

An old European variety. Flowers small; fruit heart-shaped,
greenish-yellow; flesh yellow, firm; stone uncommonly rough and uneven.

=Grüne Zwetsche Von Monrepos.= Species? Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
434. 1889.

=Guilford No. 2.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 135. 1903
=2.= _Ibid._ 422. 1905.

A seedling of Miner from Illinois. Tree moderately vigorous, productive;
fruit yellow, with a pink cheek; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Guimaraen.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 148. 1831.

Fruit medium in size, oval, yellow; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Guinea Egg.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:263. 1900.

Found wild about 1857 by Frederick Albright, near Bangor, Marshall
County, Iowa; not introduced. Tree vigorous, hardy; fruit large, dark
red; skin thin; flesh firm; good; stone small.

=Gundaker.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =6=:524. 1851. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 383. 1857.

A large, heart-shaped, purple plum grown from seed by Samuel E. Gundaker,
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, about 1820; of good quality.

=Gundaker Prune.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =6=:524. 1851. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 382. 1857.

_Groundacre_ 1, 2.

A seedling grown by Samuel E. Gundaker, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, about
1820; sent out by Samuel Carpenter of Lancaster, Ohio, as Groundacre.
Tree productive; fruit large, oval, light yellow; good.

=Guthrie Apricot.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =12=:341. 1846. =2.= _U.
S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ =2=:449. 1849. =3.= McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ =2=:531.
1855. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 918. 1869. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
434. 1889.

_Abricot de Guthrie_ 5. Guthrie’s Apricot Plum 2. _Guthrie’s Apricot_ 5.
_Guthrie’s Golden_ 4. Guthrie’s Golden 5. Guthrie’s New Apricot 3.

A seedling raised by Charles Guthrie of Taybank, Dundee, Scotland. Fruit
of medium size, roundish; suture slight; cavity small; yellow; bloom
thin; dots red; flesh yellow, coarse, juicy, sweet; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Guthrie Russet.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 919. 1869. =2.=
Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:167. 1873.

Rousse De Guthrie 2. _Guthrie’s Russet_ 2.

A seedling of Reine Claude grown by Charles Guthrie, Taybank, Dundee,
Scotland. Fruit large, oval; suture distinct; cavity small; stem slender;
yellow, sometimes marbled with red; bloom thin; flesh yellow, juicy,
sweet; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Guthrie Topaz.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =12=:341. 1846. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 919. 1869. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 728. 1884. =4.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434. 1889.

Guthrie’s Topaz 4. _Guthrie’s Topaz_ 3, 4. Topaz 3. _Topaze de Guthrie_ 4.

Grown by Charles Guthrie, Taybank, Dundee, Scotland, probably from seed
of Reine Claude. Tree hardy, productive; fruit of medium size, oval,
necked, suture distinct; cavity small; stem slender; yellow, with thin
bloom; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; flavor not high but pleasant; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Gwalsh.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 148. 1831. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 301. 1845. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 343. 1849.

From Thomas Hancock, Burlington, New York. Fruit large, obovate; suture
indistinct; dark purple; flesh yellow, juicy, sprightly; quality fair;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Haag.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 39. 1897. =2.= _Ia.
Sta. Bul._ =46=:274. 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 150. 1901.

Purchased from a nurseryman of Minneapolis and introduced as Haag by
J. S. Haag, Hosper, Sioux County, Iowa. Tree moderately vigorous,
spreading; fruit above medium size, roundish; suture distinct; flesh
greenish-yellow, tender, sweet; good; stone oval, clinging; mid-season.

=Hackl Grosse Zwetsche.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434. 1889.

Reference to this variety found by Mathieu in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_
287. 1884.

=Haferpflaume.= Insititia? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434. 1889.

_Blaue Krieche._ _Echte Hafer Pflaume._ _Echte Hafer Zwetsche._

=Haffner Herbstpflaume.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434.
1889.

=Haffner Königspflaume.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434.
1889.

_Royale de Haffner._

=Haku Botan.= Triflora. =1.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =129=:113. 1901.

Imported by the United States Department of Agriculture.

=Hallenbeck.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =8=:309. 1860. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 920. 1869.

Originated with Henry Hallenbeck, East Greenbush, Rensselaer County,
New York. Fruit large, roundish-oval, one side often enlarged,
reddish-purple; numerous minute dots; flesh greenish-yellow, very juicy,
sugary, brisk flavor; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Halcyon.= Triflora × Munsoniana? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:225.
1899. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 215. 1901.

Grown by J. S. Breece, North Carolina. Fruit heart-shaped; suture faint;
bright red; dots few; flesh yellow; quality fair; stone large, oval,
clinging.

=Hanford.= Domestica. =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 71. 1868.

Hanford’s Orleans 1.

Mentioned in 1868 by Lucius C. Frances in the report of the Illinois
Horticultural Society.

=Hanska.= Americana × Simonii. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =108=: Pl. 5.
1908.

Originated by N. E. Hansen of the South Dakota Experiment Station; first
fruited in 1906 on two-year-old trees. Tree very vigorous, fruit of
medium size, roundish-oblate, halves unequal; suture shallow; bright red;
bloom heavy; flesh firm, reddish; stone very small; semi-free.

=Hanson.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 151.
1901.

Said to be of value in the South. Fruit of medium size; nearly spherical;
suture shallow; skin very thick; bright red over yellow; dots numerous;
flesh yellow; sweet; good; stone round, slightly flattened, clinging;
early.

=Happiness.= Triflora ×? =1.= Griffing Bros. _Cat._ 1906-1909.

A chance seedling found by Joseph Breck about 1899; introduced by F. T.
Ramsey, Austin, Texas; fruit large, bright red; good.

=Harlow.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 74. 1895.

Supposed to be a seedling of Bradshaw; raised by S. C. Harlow, Bangor,
Maine. Tree vigorous, hardy, productive; fruit large, oblong-oval; skin
smooth, reddish-purple; dots numerous, fawn-colored; bloom light; flesh
greenish-amber, melting, mildly subacid; mid-season.

=Harney.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 45. 1895.

Specimens of this plum from H. C. Cook, White Salmon, Washington, were
described by the Division of Pomology, Department of Agriculture. Fruit
large, roundish; cavity large, regular, deep, abrupt; suture shallow;
purplish-red; dots large and small, russet; bloom thin; skin thin, tough;
flesh pale yellow, tender, juicy, sweet, rich; very good; stone medium,
roundish, nearly free; mid-season.

=Harper.= Munsoniana? =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 28. 1876. =2.= _Ibid._
24. 1881.

Harper’s 1.

Originated about 1870. Fruit red; clingstone; mid-season.

=Harriet.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =18=:441. 1882. =2.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 705. 1884.

Grown by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, about 1870. Fruit of the
Reine Claude type, medium in size; roundish-oblate; cavity deep; suture
slight; skin thin but rather tough; golden yellow sometimes specked with
red; bloom thin; flesh yellow, juicy, firm, very good; stone of medium
size, oval, turgid, clinging; mid-season.

=Harris.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 225. 1877.

Tree and fruit much resemble Miner, but the ripening season is four weeks
earlier; freestone.

=Harrison.= Americana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 123. 1875. =2.= _Cornell
Sta. Bul._ =38=:38, 86. 1892. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:39, 40. 1897.
=4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 170. 1901.

Harrison’s Peach 1, 2, 3. _Harrison’s Peach_ 4.

Found growing wild in Minnesota. Tree unproductive; fruit of medium size,
oval; suture a line; cavity shallow; dots small; dull red; bloom thick;
flesh yellow, tender, juicy, sweet; quality fair; stone oval, pointed,
flattened, semi-clinging; mid-season. Harrison is the parent of a great
number of varieties.

=Hart.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:40. 1897. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:274. 1900. =3.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:19. 1905.

Hart’s De Soto 1. _Hart’s De Soto_ 2, 3.

A sprout taken from a tree bought for De Soto by H. Hart, Sioux County,
Iowa, about 1890; widely distributed by the Iowa Agricultural College.
The fruit resembles De Soto in color and shape, but ripens from ten days
to two weeks earlier; somewhat larger in size but inferior in quality.

=Hartwick.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
151. 1901.

Noted as of little value.

=Hartwiss.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 383. 1857. =2.= Mas
_Pom. Gen._ =2=:123. 1873. =3.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ No. 3. Pl. 1882. =4.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889.

_Hartwiss Gelbe Zwetsche_ 2, 3. Hartwiss Yellow Prune 1. Quetsche Jaune
de Hartwiss 2. _Quetsche Jaune de Hartwiss_ 4. Von Hartwiss’ Gelbe
Zwetsche 4.

Obtained by Liegel from a pit of Quetsche Jaune Précoce and dedicated
by him to the Director of the Imperial Gardens at Nikita, Crimea. Tree
large, productive; fruit medium in size, irregularly oval; suture broad
and shallow; halves unequal; skin canary-yellow, rather adherent; bloom
thin; flesh yellow, tender, sweet; freestone; mid-season.

=Harvest.= Americana. =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 127. 1890.

Brought in from the wild by H. Knudson, Springfield, Minnesota. Fruit
large, roundish-ovate; skin thin, red; quality fair; early.

=Hattie.= Cerasifera. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 67. 1875. =2.= _Cornell
Sta. Bul._ =38=:75, 86. 1892. =3.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =13=:369. 1900.

Cultivated in the South. Tree dwarfish; branches stiff and rough; leaves
small, folded upward, finely serrate; petioles glandless; flowers small
and clustered; fruit small, roundish; suture a line; cavity small; stem
slender; dull red; bloom thin; dots many, conspicuous; skin thin, tough;
flesh yellow, soft, watery; quality fair; clingstone; early.

=Hayo-Simoni.= Triflora. =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =27=:124. 1898.

An upright, vasiform tree; fruit above medium, roundish-oblate; suture
distinct; dark red; dots minute, yellow; bloom abundant; flesh dull
yellow, firm, juicy, subacid; good; clingstone; early.

=Hazard.= Domestica. =1.= John Watkins _Cat._

Mentioned by John Watkins, nurseryman, Withington, England.

=Heaton.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.

Received by J. W. Kerr about 1894 from H. A. Terry, Iowa. Fruit medium to
large, oblong-oval, dark purplish-red; freestone; early.

=Hector.= Domestica.

A chance seedling found about 1890 by Edward Smith on his farm at Hector,
New York; introduced by E. Smith and Sons, Geneva, New York. Tree
vigorous, hardy and productive; fruit one and three-quarters inches in
diameter, roundish; cavity deep; suture shallow; stem short, thick; skin
tender; dark reddish-purple; bloom thick; dots inconspicuous; flesh light
yellow, juicy, tender, sweet, mild; quality good; stone semi-clinging,
oval, turgid, slightly winged and necked; mid-season.

=Heep.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 195. 1901.

F. T. Ramsey, Austin, Texas, offered this sort in his 1897 catalog as an
old variety found in the orchard of a Mr. Heep. Tree very vigorous and
productive; fruit above medium size, red; quality fair.

=Heikes.= Triflora. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:23. 1894. =2.= _Ibid._
=139=:38, 42. 1897.

_Burbank No. 4_ 1.

Imported by Luther Burbank, Santa Rosa, California, in 1885, and named
for W. F. Heikes of the Huntsville Nurseries, Huntsville, Alabama. As
tested at the Cornell Experiment Station similar to Satsuma if not
identical with it.

=Heine Superbe.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434. 1889.

=Helen.= Species? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875.

Helen’s Seedling 1.

Listed in American Pomological Society catalog for eight years.

=Hendrick.= Munsoniana? =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ N. S. =11=:12. 1890.

Hendrick’s 1.

Tree vigorous; fruit of medium size, spherical, yellow, blushed with red;
flesh tender; good; early.

=Henrietta Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Gen. Farmer_ =9=:232. 1848. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 920. 1869. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:169. 1873.

_Early Genesee_ 2. _Henrietta Gage_ 3. Reine-Claude D’Henrietta 3.

Originated about 1840 on the farm of a Mr. Brown, Henrietta, Monroe
County, New York. Similar to Reine Claude but much earlier.

=Henry Clay.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =3=:20. 1855. =2.= Mas _Pom.
Gen._ =2=:95. 1873.

A seedling of Howard raised by Elisha Dorr, Albany, New York; named by
Dr. Warder of Cincinnati, Ohio; first fruited in 1852. Fruit large, oval;
suture broad and shallow; stem long, rather thick; skin clear yellow,
often washed and dotted with red on the sunny exposure; flesh clear
yellow, sweet, vinous; good; stone small, clinging; mid-season.

=Herbst Kriecke.= Insititia? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435. 1889.

Mention of the variety found by Mathieu in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 288.
1884.

=Herbstpflaume.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 445. 1881.

A German variety; unproductive in dry soils.

=Hereford Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Watkins _Cat._ 48. 1892?

Mentioned in the preceding reference as a favorite and very productive.

=Herefordshire Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:160.
1901.

Fruit large, obovate; flesh firm, yellowish-green.

=Heron.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 26. 1894. =2.= _Cornell
Sta. Bul._ =131=:187. 1897. =3.= Rivers _Cat._ 35. 1898.

Originated and introduced by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England.
Popular in England but on account of its poor foliage it is of little
value in this country. Fruit large, roundish, dark purplish-red; dots
small; skin sour; flesh greenish-yellow, firm, meaty, moderately juicy,
subacid; good; stone large, oval, semi-free; early.

=Heroy.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435. 1889.

=Herren.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:52. 1900.

A vigorous variety of the Reine Claude type grown in Germany. Fruit of
medium size, roundish, slightly flattened at both ends; suture distinct;
sides often unequal; dull yellow; flesh yellowish, firm, coarse, sweet,
juicy, pleasant; freestone; mid-season.

=Herzformige Pflaume.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435.
1889.

_Prune Cordiforme._

=Heupflaume.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435. 1889.

Reference obtained by Mathieu in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 288. 1884.

=Hiawatha.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:41. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 152. 1901.

Introduced by C. W. H. Heideman, New Ulm, Minnesota, as an example
of a staminate-flowered plum; rarely productive. Fruit very large,
roundish-oblong, purplish-red; clingstone; early.

=Highland.= Domestica. =1.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort. Rpt._ =8=:47. 1897.

A seedling of Agen, grown by Luther Burbank, Santa Rosa, California. Tree
vigorous and productive; fruit large, long-oval, purplish-crimson; flesh
yellow, firm, sweet; flavor excellent; stone nearly free.

=Highlander.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 384. 1857.

Fruit large, irregularly ovate, deep blue; bloom thin; dots brown,
numerous; yellow, juicy, vinous; semi-clinging; late.

=Hilda No. 5.= Hortulana mineri ×? =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:274. 1900.

Originated under cultivation with J. F. Wagner, Bennett, Iowa, in 1894,
from seed of Miner pollinated by a wild plum; not introduced. Fruit above
medium size, dark red; used for jellies.

=Hillside.= Americana. =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 128. 1890.

Selected from wild plants by H. Knudson, Springfield, Minnesota. Fruit of
medium size; skin thick, deep red, astringent.

=Hilltop.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:42. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 152. 1901.

Fruit small, round-oval; suture a line; skin deep red; dots very minute;
thick bloom; flesh yellow; quality fair; stone large, half-free.

=Hilman.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:13. 1901.

Fruit small, oblong; skin yellow, two-thirds covered with purple; dots
conspicuous; flesh yellow, firm, sweet; stone small, oval; mid-season.

=Hinkley.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

A seedling of Harrison grown by H. A. Terry and introduced by F. W.
Meneray, Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit large, yellow with a red cheek;
flesh yellow, rich, sweet, semi-clinging; good.

=Hlubeck Aprikosenpflaume.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
435. 1889.

=Hoag’s Seedling.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =8=:356. 1889.

Received for testing at the New York Experiment Station in 1889.

=Hoffman.= Munsoniana? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:63. 1892. =2.=
Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 492. 1897.

A wild variety from southwestern Missouri. Fruit of medium size,
roundish, purplish-red; mid-season.

=Hofinger Mirabelle.= Insititia. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435. 1889.

_Hofinger’s Rote Mirabelle._ _Roter Spilling_ incor.

=Hog.=

A common name variously applied to _P. americana_, _P. umbellata_, _P.
hortulana_ and _P. gracilis_.

=Holland.= Domestica. =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 239. 1817. =2.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:78. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 301. 1845. =4.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435. 1885.

_Blue Holland_ 2, 3, 4. _Holland Plum_ 1, 3. _Holland Prune_ 4.
_Kensington Prune_ 2. _Large Holland_ 2, 3.

An old variety supposed to have been brought into this country from
Holland by the early Dutch settlers. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit
roundish, slightly compressed, blue; stem very adherent; flesh juicy,
melting, sweet, rich; freestone; mid-season.

=Holland.= Triflora × Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:14.
1898. =2.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 215. 1901.

A cross between Lone Star and Kelsey, grown by D. H. Watson, Brenham,
Texas; introduced by W. A. Yates in 1897. Fruit resembles Abundance in
shape and size; yellowish-green splashed with red; flesh firm, juicy,
vinous; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Holister.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 275. 1893. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 185. 1901.

_Holister_ 1.

A variety said to have originated with a Mr. Holister of Cedar County,
Iowa. Tree productive; fruit of medium size, roundish-oblong; cavity
shallow; suture faint; clear bright red; flesh soft, yellow, sweet; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Holman Prune.= Domestica. =1.= _Sarcoxie Nur. Cat._ 1892. =2.= _Can.
Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:52. 1900.

A seedling grown by D. S. Holman, Springfield, Maine. Fruit of medium
size, oblong, pointed; greenish-yellow; flesh yellow, firm, sweet, juicy;
stone small, pointed, free; mid-season.

=Holme.= Domestica. =1.= _Peachland Nur. Cat._

Holmes Early Blue 1.

Introduced by J. Van Lindley, Pomona, North Carolina. Tree hardy,
productive; fruit large, dark blue; good; early.

=Holt.= Americana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891. =2.= _Colo. Sta.
Bul._ =50=:37. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 152. 1901.

Originated with B. J. Holt of Rutland, Ohio. Tree vigorous, spreading;
fruit large, roundish, yellow shaded with red; flesh yellow, melting,
juicy, mild subacid; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Homestead.= Americana. =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 128. 1890. =2.=
_Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:42. 1897.

Originated with H. Knudson, Springfield, Minnesota. Fruit small, round,
deep red; skin not at all adherent; flavor rich, somewhat resembling a
peach; stone small, free.

=Honey.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:13.
1901. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 153. 1901.

Tree unproductive; fruit small, oblate; cavity shallow; suture a line;
yellow washed and shaded with red; flesh sweet; quality fair; clingstone;
early.

=Honey Julian.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 148. 1831.

=Hoo Green Gage.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 148.
1831.

=Hoosier.= Hortulana. =1.= _Sarcoxie Nur. Cat._ 1900.

From Greene County, Missouri; introduced by Wild Brothers Nursery.
Tree vigorous, spreading; fruit above medium size, roundish; suture a
line; dark cherry-red; bloom thin; dots distinct; flesh yellow; good;
clingstone; late.

=Horemoritzer Reine Claude.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 435.
1889.

Reference found by Mathieu in _Pomologische Monatshefte_ 33. 1889.

=Horrigan.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm. Bul._ =43=:38. 1903.

Mentioned as being tested.

=Horse.= Species? =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ 62. 1771. =2.= _Lond. Hort.
Soc. Cat._ 148. 1831. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:87. 1832. =4.= Kenrick
_Am. Orch._ 263. 1832. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 301. 1845. =6.=
Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 303. 1846. =7.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=13=:335. 1899.

_Early Damson_ 3. _Horse Plum_ 3, 4. _Irish Horse Plum_ 2. Large Early
Damson 3. _Large Early Damson_ 5. Large Sweet Damson 4. _Prune de Cheval_
1. Ros-pruim Double 1. _Sweet Damson_ 3, 5.

Plums from at least two and possibly three species are known as the
“Horse Plum.” In New York the Horse Plum used by nurserymen as a stock is
undoubtedly _Prunus cerasifera_. The plum referred to by Waugh, in the
preceding reference, is a variety of _Prunus domestica_. It is difficult
to determine the species referred to by the older writers, but from the
frequency with which the word Damson appears as a synonym, it would seem
that some at least had in mind _Prunus insititia_.

The Horse plum brought into this country by the early Dutch or French
settlers, propagated by seedlings or suckers was probably an Insititia.
During the first half of the last century, this plum was extensively
raised in this State and large quantities were sold in the New York
market. It is described as follows:—

Fruit of medium size, oval; suture distinct; reddish-purple; flesh
greenish, firm, sweet, dry; poor; usually freestone; mid-season.

=Horse Jag.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 148. 1831. =2.=
_Mag. Hort._ =9=:164. 1843.

_Horse Gage_ 1, 2.

Fruit small, round or slightly oval, red; stone clinging; mid-season.

=Hoskins.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:42. 1897. =2.= _Ia.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 110. 1899. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:275. 1900.

Originated by a Mr. Hoskins of Pleasant Plain, Jefferson County, Iowa;
and introduced by J. Wragg and Sons, Waukee, Iowa, in 1899. Tree
productive; fruit of medium size, yellow; skin thin, tough; freestone;
mid-season.

=Houston County.= Species? Mentioned in _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892.

=How Amber.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =12=:398, 399 fig. 1846. =2.=
Elliott _Fr. Book_ 419. 1854. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 384. 1857.

How’s Amber 1, 2, 3.

A seedling selected from several hundred brought from New Hampshire and
grown by Hall J. How of South Boston in 1838. Tree vigorous, productive;
fruit of medium size, round; suture shallow; amber, spotted and mottled
with rose; flesh coarsely veined, yellow, melting, juicy, rich; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Howard.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =1=:316. 1853. =2.= _Ibid._
=3=:20. 1855. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:185. 1873.

Howard’s Favorite 1, 2. _Howard’s Favorite_ 3. _Favorite d’Howard_ 3.

A seedling of unknown parentage produced by Elisha Dorr, Albany, New
York. Fruit large, necked, yellow, dotted and shaded with carmine;
stem very adherent; skin thick; flesh coarse, sweet, rich; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Howe.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 248. 1903. =2.= Griffing
Bros. _Cat._ 1906. =3.= _Ibid._ 1909.

Stumpe 3. _Stumpy_ 1.

A seedling of Kelsey grown in the yard of a Mrs. Stumpe, Putnam County,
Florida; introduced by Griffing Brothers in 1906. Fruit large, roundish,
red; bloom delicate; suture a line; skin thin, leathery; flesh yellow,
firm, juicy; good; stone small, oval, clinging; early.

=Howell.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 302. 1845. =2.=
_Horticulturist_ =7=:402. 1852. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 921. 1869.

_Chapin’s Early_ 3. _Early Purple_ 2, 3. Howell’s Early 1. Sea 2. _Sea_ 3.

This variety derives its name from B. Howell of Newburgh, New York, who
brought the original tree from Virginia as a sucker. It was supposed to
have been introduced into the Southern States by cions from Germany. Tree
of slow growth; fruit below medium, oval; suture indistinct; red; flesh
juicy, rich, sweet; good; freestone; very early.

=Hoyo Smomo.= Triflora. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:23. 1894.

A name used by J. L. Normand, Marksville, Louisiana; probably a synonym.

=H. T. S. 84,761.= Species? =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =61=:674. 1902.

One of Burbank’s plums. Fruit large, yellow with crimson blush; flesh
yellow, firm, sweet, vinous, juicy; clingstone; a good shipper.

=Huankume.= Triflora. =1.= _N. Mex. Sta. Bul._ =39=:122. 1901.

Reported from New Mexico as weak in growth; fruit small, roundish, downy;
yellowish-red; slightly acid; clingstone; resembles the apricot in flavor
and appearance.

=Hudson Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 277. 1845. =2.=
Hogg _Fruit Man._ 365. 1866. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 364. 1895.

Hudson 2. _Hudson_ 3. _Hudson Gage_ 2, 3. _Hudson’s gelbe Frühpflaume_ 3.
Reine-Claude d’Hudson 3.

Hudson Gage is one of several good varieties originated by L. V. Lawrence
of Hudson New York. Fruit of medium size, oval; suture slight; yellow,
obscurely streaked with green; bloom thin; flesh greenish, juicy,
melting, sprightly; good; freestone; early; placed in the catalog of the
American Pomological Society in 1877.

=Hughes.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 166. 1885. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 195-6. 1901. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:275. 1904.

Originated in northeastern Mississippi where it is said to be one of
the best of its species. Fruit of medium size, roundish; stem long,
slender; cavity shallow; suture a line; bright red, striped with yellow;
dots large, white; skin thin; flesh yellow, fibrous, watery, sprightly,
subacid quality fair; stone of medium size, turgid, clinging; late.

=Hungarian Musk Prune.= Domestica. =1.= _Guide Prat._ 158, 363. 1895.
=2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 432. 1905.

_Basilic_ 1. _Musquée de Besztercze_ 1. _Proune bissioque_ (Roumanie) 1.
Quetsche musquée de Hongrie 1.

Hungarian Musk Prune is very similar to the German Prune; fruit of
medium size, necked; cavity small; suture shallow; deep purple; bloom
thick; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, musky, aromatic; stone small, free;
mid-season.

=Hungarian No. 1.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =31=:349. 1895.

J. L. Budd of the Iowa Experiment Station received this plum from Europe
with sprouts of his Ungarish. Fruit of medium size, prune-shape, bright
yellow; freestone.

=Hungarian No. 2.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890.

Imported by J. L. Budd from Russia; of little value.

=Hunn.= Triflora. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =139=:43. 1897. =2.= _Ibid._
=175=:147. 1899.

_Burbank No. 1_ 1, 2.

A small, round plum named for C. E. Hunn of the New York State College of
Agriculture; apex pointed; suture shallow; deep red; dots many, yellow;
flesh soft, yellow, aromatic; quality fair; clingstone; mid-season.

=Hunt.= Munsoniana × Americana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 78. 1897. =2.=
_Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:275. 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 153. 1901.

Originated about 1880 by Henry Hunt, De Soto, Dallas County, Iowa, from
seed of Wild Goose probably pollinated by the De Soto, trees of which
stood near. It was supposed at one time that Lombard was the male parent
but no traces of Domestica blood can be detected in either tree or fruit;
introduced in 1897 by M. J. Graham, Odel, Iowa. Fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval; cavity shallow; suture a line; dark red; bloom heavy; dots
large, conspicuous; skin thin, not astringent; flesh yellow, firm, mild;
quality fair; stone large, ovate, winged.

=Hunt De Soto.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:20. 1905.

Hunt’s De Soto 1.

Introduced by J. L. Budd of the Iowa Experiment Station; closely
resembles De Soto, differing from it in being a little larger, darker red
and a better keeper.

=Ida.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:38. 1892. =2.= _Colo.
Sta. Bul._ =50=:37. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 153. 1901.

Originated with D. B. Wier of Illinois. Tree very thorny, of slow,
irregular growth; fruit medium, roundish-oblong; cavity shallow; stem
medium, stout, dull; red over yellow; bloom thick; skin thick; flesh pale
yellow; quality fair; stone roundish, rather flat, clinging; mid-season.

=Ida Green Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 212. 1849.

A seedling of Reine Claude originating near Mount Ida, New York. It very
closely resembles its parent except that it is more strongly blushed and
is a few days later; obsolete.

=Idall.= Munsoniana × Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:56.
1892. =2.= _Am. Gard._ =19=:234. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 173. 1901.

_Idal_ 2. Idol 1. _Idol_ 1, 2.

According to the originator, D. B. Wier, of Illinois, the Idall is a
cross between Wild Goose and Miner. Fruit large, roundish-oval; cavity
shallow; suture a line; red; dots many; skin tough; flesh yellow; good;
stone of medium size, oval, clinging; late.

=Imperial.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:276. 1900.

A small plum of the De Soto type brought to notice by C. B. Ginrich,
Laporte, Iowa. Fruit round, conical; cavity broad, deep; suture a line;
yellow with red markings; bloom thin; flesh clear yellow, firm, brisk,
acid; good; clingstone.

=Impériale Alexandrina.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 436.
1889.

=Impériale de Milan.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.
=2.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 365. 1866. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:67. 1866-73.

_Mailändische Kaiserpflaume_ 3. _Prune de Milan_ 2, 3.

Originated near the city of Milan, Italy. Tree large, vigorous,
spreading; fruit medium, oval; suture distinct; stem short, rather thick;
skin tough, dark purple; bloom heavy; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, firm,
sweet; good; usually freestone; mid-season.

=Imperial Ottoman.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.
=2.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:11 fig. 1846. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 413.
1854. =4.= Mas =Pom. Gen.= =2=:137. 1873. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 442.
1889.

Impériale de Turquie 4. _Impériale Ottomane_ 5. _Imperial Ottoman_ 3, 4,
5. Ottoman 3. Ottomanische Kaiserpflaume 5. _Ottomanische Kaiserpflaume_
4. _Türkische Gelbe Pflaume_ 5.

Supposed to have been brought into this country from Turkey by William
Prince. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit medium, roundish-oval; suture
indistinct; stem of medium length, slender; greenish-yellow, clouded and
mottled with darker shades; bloom thin; flesh yellow, juicy, pleasant;
good; clingstone; very early.

=Imperial Purple.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 923. 1869.
=2.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:45. 1873.

_Imperial Purple_ 2. Pourprée Impérial 2.

Raised by William Prince, Flushing, Long Island. Tree vigorous,
productive, fruit medium in size, roundish-oval; suture barely indicated;
stem of medium length, slender; intense purple; flesh yellowish, juicy,
sweet; clingstone; mid-season.

=Imperial Violet.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:99.
1768. =2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:33, Tab. 181 fig. 1. 1796. =3.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:60. 1832. =4.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:497. 1860.

Die violete Kaiserpflaume mit scheckichten Blattern 2. Impériale à Petit
Fruit Violet 4. Impériale Violette à feuilles panachees 1. _Impériale
violette à feuilles panachees_ 2, 3.

A variety with variegated leaves and fruit, cultivated as an ornamental.

=Imperial Washington.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =25=:204. 1870.

A seedling of Lombard grown by G. P. Peffer of Pewaukee, Wisconsin. Tree
vigorous and productive; fruit large, roundish, slightly oblate; suture
faint; cavity lacking or small; brownish-red; dots yellow; skin thin,
tender; flesh greenish-yellow, firm, juicy, rich; late.

=Improved French Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Coates _Cat._ 1908.

_Miller_ 1.

A seedling of Agen grown by Luther Burbank and sold in 1898 under the
name Miller to Leonard Coates, Morganhill, California, who introduced it
under the name given above about 1908. Very similar to its parent but
larger and more uniform in size.

=Incomparable.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 924. 1869. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889.

_Incomparable_ 2. _Incomparable Prune_ 1. _Nonpareil_ 1, 2.
_Unvergleichliche_ 2.

Probably a seedling of the German Prune. Tree vigorous; fruit of medium
size, long-oval; suture shallow; cavity small; deep purplish-black; bloom
heavy; flesh yellow, sweet; good; clingstone; late.

=Indian.= Domestica. =1.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:36, Tab. 186 fig. 1.
1796.

Die grosse indianische braunrothe Pflaume 1. _Grosse prune d’Inde rouge_
1.

Fruit large, obovate, brownish-red; suture distinct; flesh yellow, firm;
good; obsolete.

=Indiana.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Rpt._ 111. 1887. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:56, 86. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 173. 1901.

_Indiana Red_ 3. Indiana Red 1, 2.

Supposed to have been found wild in Indiana; introduced by Dr. I. Cramer.
Tree tender in severe climates; fruit medium in size, oval; cavity
shallow; stem slender; suture a line; red; bloom thin; dots minute,
small; flesh yellow, firm; quality fair; stone large; oval, clinging;
season late.

=Indian Chief.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:49, 86. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 186. 1901.

A southern variety of which the place of origin is not certainly known;
Munson says southern Texas, Onderdonk thinks Georgia, others consider
Arkansas as its birthplace. Tree vasiform, open; leaves short, broad,
finely serrate; petiole short, glandular; fruit of medium size, oval;
stem short, slender; cavity shallow; suture a line; dots numerous, white;
bright red; skin thick; flesh yellow, melting, insipid; poor; stone
long-oval, flattened, clinging; early.

=Inkpa.= Americana × Simonii. _Cir. S. Dak. Exp. Sta._ 1910.

Inkpa is a cross between _Prunus simonii_ and _Prunus americana_ made by
N. E. Hansen of the South Dakota Experiment Station, who introduced the
variety in 1910.

=Iola.= Species? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892.

Originated by D. B. Wier, Illinois. Fruit large, oblong, yellow covered
with red; flesh firm; freestone; late.

=Iona.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:39. 1892. =2.=
Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 490. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 153. 1901.

Originated with D. B. Wier, from seed taken from a wild bush in
southwestern Wisconsin. Tree vigorous, upright; fruit of medium size,
oval; cavity shallow; suture a line; flesh yellow, firm, sweet; quality
fair; freestone; late.

=Iowa.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:43. 1897. =2.= _Minn.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 411. 1899. =3.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:20. 1905.
From Allamakee County, Iowa. Fruit medium, oval; red over yellow; skin
astringent; early.

=Iowa Beauty.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1898. =2.= _Ia. Hort. Soc.
Rpt._ 111. 1899. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:276. 1900.

Taken from the woods about 1860 by Hugo Beyer, New London, Iowa. Fruit
of medium size, oval, mottled yellow; flesh melting, juicy, sweet; good;
early.

=Irby.= Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =11=:284. 1898. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 181. 1901. =3.= Tex. Nur. _Cat._ 1907.

_Erby September_ 1, 2. Irby September 3.

Found by Dan Irby of Texas growing on the grounds of an old Indian
settlement. Fruit of medium size, bright red; late; similar to Wayland.

=Ireland.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =21=:391. 1898. Ireland’s Seedling
1.

Fruit of medium size, dark blue; stem slender; cavity deep; suture
distinct; flesh green, tender, juicy; good; early.

=Ireland Golden.= Domestica. =1.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =3=:120. 1896.

Ireland’s Golden Gage 1.

Tree vigorous, hardy, productive; good; early.

=Irene.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 154. 1901.

Originated by D. B. Wier, Illinois. Fruit of medium size, oval; bright
red; skin thick; flesh yellow, firm; clingstone; late.

=Iris.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:56. 1892. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 173. 1901.

Originated and introduced by D. B. Wier of Illinois. Fruit medium in
size, oval; cavity shallow; suture a line; red; bloom thin; flesh yellow;
poor; clingstone; late.

=Ironclad.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:38. 1892. =2.= _Ia.
Sta. Bul._ =46=:275. 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 154. 1901.

Illinois Ironclad 1, 2. _Illinois Ironclad_ 3.

A wild variety from Illinois introduced by Stark Brothers in 1890. Tree
dwarf; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; stem slender; cavity of
medium depth, flaring; suture shallow; dots many, small, yellow; dark
red; bloom thick; skin thick; flesh yellow, firm, meaty, sweet; quality
fair; stone oval, smooth, flattened, clinging; mid-season.

=Iroquois.= Hortulana mineri? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:39. 1903.

From Charles Luedloff, Cologne, Minnesota. Fruit of medium size,
roundish-heart-shaped; cavity narrow; suture a line; dark red; dots
numerous, small, yellow; bloom thin; skin thick, tough; flesh yellow,
juicy, sweet; quality fair; stone oval, slightly flattened, clinging.

=Isaac.= Americana. =1.= Kerr Cat. 1897. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 154.
1901.

Brought to notice by M. S. Hubbell from a wild tree near Lincoln,
Nebraska. Fruit small, roundish, red over a green ground; clingstone.

=Isabella.= Domestica. =1.= _Pom. Mag._ =3=:150. 1830. =2.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 305. 1845. =3.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =6=:93, Pl. 1858. =4.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 366. 1866. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 436. 1889.

Die Isabelle 5. _Prune Isabelle_ 3.

An English variety popular sixty-five years ago; said to produce three
crops a year. Tree vigorous; fruit large, oval; suture distinct; deep,
dull red, paler in the shade; dots many, dark colored; flesh yellow,
rich, juicy, brisk; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Isabella.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat_. 1900. =2.= Terry _Cat_. 1900

Originated with H. A. Terry, Iowa, in 1893. Tree low, spreading,
productive; fruit of medium size, roundish; dark red on a yellow ground;
good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Isle-Verte.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 70. 1699. =2.=
Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:107. 1768. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:94.
1832. =4.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:39. 1873.

_Grosse Grüne Pflaume_ 4. _Grüne Inselpflaume_ 4. _Ilevert_ 2, 4. _Ile
Vert_ 3. _Ile verte_ 3. _Ille verte_ 3. Illvert 1. _Inselpflaume Grüne_
4. _Isle Vert_ 3. Isle Verte 2. _Prune de Savoye_ 3. _Prune Ileverte_ 4.
_Savoy_ 3.

Tree very prolific; fruit of medium size, oval; suture a line; stem of
medium length; skin yellowish-green, reddish on the sunny side; flesh
clear yellow, juicy, sweet; clingstone; used for preserves and pickles.

=Italian Damask.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb._ Fr. =2=:75. 1768.
=2.= _Kraft Pom. Aust._ =2=:42, Tab. 195 fig. 1. 1796. =3.= Prince _Pom.
Man._ =2=:83. 1832. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 302. 1845. =5.= Poiteau
_Pom. Franc._ 1846. =6.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 366. 1866. =7.= _Guide Prat._
157, 353. 1895.

Damas d’Italie 1, 7. _Damas d’Italie_ 2, 3, 4, 6. Die wälsche
Damascenerpflaume 2. Prune Damas d’Italie 5. _Prunus italica_ 5.

Supposed to have originated in Italy. Tree productive, doing especially
well in the South; fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity small;
suture distinct; dark purple; bloom heavy; dots small, light; flesh
yellowish-green, juicy, firm, sweet; good; stone thick, free; mid-season.

=Italienische Damascene= (Diel’s). Species? Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
436. 1889.

_Damas d’Italie._

=Italienische Damascene= (Liegel’s). Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 436. 1889.

_Damas d’Italie._

=Itasca.= Nigra. =1.= _Mich. Sta. An. Rpt._ 111. 1887. =2.= _Cornell Sta.
Bul._ =38=:39. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 171. 1901.

Itaska 1, 2.

An inferior variety from Minnesota; introduced by P. M. Gideon,
Excelsior, Minnesota, and W. F. Heikes, Huntsville, Alabama. Tree dense
and stocky; fruit of medium size, oblong, dull purple-red; skin thick;
flesh firm; quality fair; clingstone; mid-season.

=Ithaca.= Species? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892.

Supposed to have originated with Peter M. Gideon, Minnesota.

=Ivason.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat_. 1897.

From Iowa. Tree vigorous; fruit large, roundish, purplish-red;
semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Ives.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =15=:118. 1849. =2.= Cole _Am. Fr.
Book_ 211. 1849. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 214. 1856. =4.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 924. 1869.

_Ive’s Seedling_ 1, 4. _Ive’s Washington_ 4. Ives’ Washington Seedling 3.
Washington Seedling 2.

A seedling of Washington raised by J. M. Ives of Salem, Massachusetts;
named by C. M. Hovey; first fruited in 1845. Tree very vigorous; fruit
large, roundish-oblong; distinct suture; skin yellow, mottled and dotted
with red; bloom thin; stem short and slender; flesh amber, melting, rich;
excellent; stone medium, ovate, free.

=Ives.= Insititia. =1.= _Am. Gard._ =14=:148. 1893.

Ives Damson 1.

Grown locally in southern Connecticut. Tree productive; fruit purple,
sour; clingstone; unusually late.

=J. H. Rue.= Species? =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:43. 1897.

First noted by J. L. Budd of Iowa. Tree productive; fruit the size of
Stoddard; flesh firm.

=J. Parks.= Species? =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 420. 1905.

Fruit small, light red; flesh meaty, firm; good; freestone; not troubled
with rot.

=Jacinthe.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:100, Pl. XVI.
1768. =2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:28, Tab. 173 fig. 2. 1796. =3.= Coxe
_Cult. Fr. Trees_ 238. 1817. =4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:94. 1832. =5.=
Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:123. 1866-73.

Die Hyacinthenpflaume 2. _Hyacinth_ 4. _Hyacinthe Pflaume_ 5. Jacinthe 2.
_Prune Jacinthe_ 5.

An old variety imported from England by William Coxe. Fruit large,
elongated; suture indistinct; clear purple; flesh yellow, firm, juicy;
good; stone oval, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Jacob.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 925. 1869.

Described only by Downing. Fruit of medium size, oval, necked, sides
unequal; suture large; violet; flesh greenish, juicy, sweet; good;
freestone; mid-season.

=Jap No. 4.= Americana × Triflora. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:276. 1900.
=2.= _Ibid._ =114=:138. 1910.

Japan Hybrid No. 4 2.

A seedling from De Soto pollinated with some Japanese variety; sent
out by the Iowa Experiment Station about 1895. Fruit of medium size,
long-oval; suture distinct; mottled red over a yellow ground; dots none;
skin thin, tender; flesh yellow, sweet; good; freestone.

=Japan No. 1.= Americana × Triflora. =1.= Kerr _Cat_. 1899.

A hybrid grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa.

=Japan No. 3.= Americana × Triflora. =1.= Kerr _Cat_. 1899.

Another of Mr. Terry’s hybrids.

=Japan Hybrid No. 2.= (a). Americana × Triflora. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._
=114=:137. 1910.

One of a number of hybrids produced by the late J. L. Budd of the Iowa
Experiment Station. This one is of the Americana type; fruit medium in
size, oval, dark red over yellow; flesh yellow, tender, sweet; good;
freestone; mid-season.

=Japan Hybrid No. 2= (b). Americana × Triflora. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._
=114=:138. 1910.

From the same lot of hybrids as Japan Hybrid No. 2 (a). Fruit resembles
_Prunus americana_; large, oval, red over yellow; skin thick, tough,
bitter; flesh juicy, coarse, pulpy, sweet; fair in quality; mid-season.

=Japanese Plum Seedling.= Triflora. =1.= _Am. Gard._ =14=:515. 1893.

A seedling from Luther Burbank produced by pollinating Kelsey with
Satsuma. Outwardly resembles Kelsey; flesh red, pleasant, juicy, meaty;
vinous; stone small, clinging.

=Jaspisartige Pflaume.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 436.
1889.

_Lieflandische Grüne Zwetsche._ _Weisse Violen Pflaume_.

=Jaune d’Este.= Domestica. =1.= _Flor. & Pom._ 186. 1872.

Jean d’Este 1.

An old variety deserving of notice because of its earliness.

=Jaune Tardive.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d. Ser =3=:53.
1900. =2.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 491. 1908.

Tree vigorous; fruit of medium size, oval, amber-yellow; flesh sweet;
good.

=Jaune Tres Hâtive Baboud.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser.
=3=:52. 1900.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit below medium, oval; suture shallow;
cavity small; clear yellow; flesh yellow, tender, juicy, sweet, pleasant;
good; freestone; very early.

=Jean Morceau.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.

A variety grown at one time in the London Horticultural Society gardens.

=Jennie Lucas.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 160, 162.
1881. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 196. 1901. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256,
257. 1905.

Jennie Lucas is a seedling grown by G. Onderdonk, Mission Valley
Nurseries, Victoria County, Texas; introduced by the originator in
1875. Fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity shallow; suture a line;
dots numerous, large, white; light yellow; skin thin; flesh yellow,
soft, sweetish; quality fair; stone large, round, flattened, clinging;
mid-season.

=Jerusalem.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 27. 1828. =2.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:95. 1832. =3.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1.= 1846. =4.=
Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:497. 1860. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
926. 1869. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 433. 1889. =7.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand.
Obst._ 471. 1894. =8.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 367. 1895.

_Blaue Eierpflaume_ 6, 8. _De Bordeaux_ 1, 2, 5. _De Jerusalem_ 4.
_Jerusalem_ 6. _Oeil de Boeuf_ 1, 2, 4, 5. _Oeuil-de-Boeuf_ 6. _Prune
de Bordeaux_ 6. _Prune de Jerusalem_ 3. _Prune Violet de Jerusalem_ 5.
_Prunier de Jerusalem_ 2, 5, 6. _Violette de Jerusalem_ 6. _Violette
Jerusalem_ 5. Violette Jerusalems pflaume 6. _Violette Jerusalemspflaume_
7. _Wahre blaue Eierpflaume_ 6, 8.

The tree and fruit of this variety resemble the German Prune of which it
is probably an offspring. Fruit large, oval; suture a line; dark purple;
flesh yellowish, prune-like, firm, sweet; good; stone long, flat, free;
mid-season.

=Jessie.= Americana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 263. 1892. =2.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 154. 1901.

A seedling introduced from the wild by the Martin Nursery Company,
Winfield, Kansas, about 1892. Tree productive, vigorous, suckers badly;
fruit of medium size, oval; cavity shallow; suture a line; wine-red;
flesh yellow, melting, fibrous, slightly subacid; good; clingstone; early.

=Jewell.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =87=:14. 1901. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 186. 1901.

A seedling of Wild Goose from H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; first fruited
in 1885. Fruit of medium size, round; cavity shallow; suture indistinct;
red over a yellow ground; bloom light; dots numerous; skin thin, not
adherent to the pulp; flesh yellow, tender; quality fair; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Jodoigne.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 367. 1866. =2.= _Ibid._
708. 1884. =3.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 472. 1894.

_Boulouf_ ?1. Jodoigne Green Gage 1, 2. _Reine-Claude de Jodoigne_ 1, 2.
Reine-Claude von Jodoigne 3. _Royal de Vilvorde_ 1, 2.

Probably a Reine Claude seedling; tree large, vigorous; shoots smooth;
fruit large, round, inclining to oblate, greenish-yellow, with
brownish-red cheek; suture shallow; flesh whitish-yellow, firm, juicy,
tender, sweet, rich; mid-season.

=Joe Hooker.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._
=50=:38. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 154. 1901.

Tree dwarfish; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; cavity shallow;
suture faint; red on a yellow ground; skin thick; flesh yellow;
clingstone; late.

=John A.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 137. 1894. =2.= _Ont.
Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 72. 1894. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:276. 1900.

A cross between Evelyn and Italian Prune; originated with Richard
Trotter, Owen Sound, Ontario. Tree vigorous; fruit large, oval or
egg-shape; cavity narrow; bronze-red; bloom heavy; flesh greenish-yellow,
firm, juicy, subacid; stone large; clinging; hangs well.

=Johnny Roe.= Domestica. =1.= _Garden_ =53=:263. 1898.

An English variety propagated from suckers in Nottinghamshire.

=Jones.= Americana? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892. =2.= _Ia.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 334. 1894. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:277. 1900.

Originated in 1880 with Mrs. Owen Jones, Crescent, Iowa, who planted the
pits from a quart of “California plums” she had purchased; introduced by
H. A. Terry about 1895. Tree upright, spreading, productive; fruit of
medium size, oval; suture indistinct; dark red; bloom light; skin thick,
tender; flesh firm, meaty; quality fair; stone smooth, not margined;
clinging; mid-season.

=Jones Late.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:43. 1897.

Introduced by H. A. Terry. Tree productive; fruit large, oval, red; flesh
firm; clingstone.

=Jordan Seedling.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =14=:329. 1891.

Supposed to be a seedling of Yellow Egg; originated with F. Jordan of
Goderich, Ontario. The variety resembles Hulings so closely as to be
almost indistinguishable.

=Judson.= Domestica. =1.= Thomas _Am. Fr. Cult._ 342. 1849. =2.= Elliott
_Fr. Book_ 427. 1854.

Originated in Lansingburgh, New York, some time in the early “forties.”
Fruit small, roundish; suture indistinct; cavity small; attractive pink;
flesh juicy, rich, vinous; quality high; freestone; season just before
Reine Claude.

=Julia.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:277. 1900. =2.= Terry
_Cat._ 1900.

_Edith_ of Terry 1.

A seedling from H. A. Terry in 1896. Tree productive; fruit large, round,
yellow striped with light red; flesh firm; clingstone; mid-season.

=Julian.= Triflora. Noted in Sweet _Cat._ 1907.

=Julien Gros á Feuilles Panachees.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort.
Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.

=July Fourth.= Domestica? × Triflora × Americana. =1.= _Rural N. Y._
=59=:655 fig. 1900.

A second generation seedling from Luther Burbank; said to rank very high
in quality.

=July Green Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Jour. Hort._ =9=:128. 1865. =2.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 360, 367. 1866. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 926. 1869. =4.=
Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:99. 1873. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437. 1889. =6.=
_Guide Prat._ 152, 363. 1895.

Bavay’s Early Gage? 1. _Bavay’s Frühe Reine-Claude_ 4, 6. _Early Bavay_
3, ?5. Early Green Gage? 2. _Frühe Reine-Claude_ 6. Juli Reine-Claude 5.
_Julius Reine-Claude_ 5. _July Green Gage_ 4, 5. Reine-Claude Davion 4,
6. _Reine-Claude de Bavay Hâtive_ 2, 3, 4, 6. _Reine-Claude de Juillet_
6. _Reine-Claude Hâtive_ 5, of some 6. _Reine-Claude Hâtive d’Avion_ 6.
_Reine-Claude Hâtive de Bavay_ 6. _Reine-Claude Bavay Hâtive?_ 5.

July Green Gage was introduced into France from Normandy about the
middle of the last century by a M. Davion. Tree productive; fruit
of medium size, roundish; suture slight; stem short; cavity narrow,
deep; yellowish-green sometimes spotted with red; bloom thin; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, aromatic, sweet; very good; freestone; very early.

=Jumelles.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 432. 1905.

Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture distinct; greenish streaked with
yellow; flesh juicy, sweet, rich; stone small, semi-clinging; early.

=Jumelles de Liegel.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 160, 358. 1895.

_Jumelles de Liegel_ 1. Liegel’s Zwillingspflaume 1. _Liegel’s
Zwillingspflaume_ 2.

Tree productive; fruit large, roundish, red; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet,
vinous; good; late.

=Kaga.= Americana × Simonii. =1.= _Circ. S. Dak. Exp. Sta._ 1910.

Introduced in 1910 by the originator, N. E. Hansen, of the South Dakota
Experiment Station. It is a cross between _Prunus simonii_ and some
Americana.

=Kaiser Wilhelm.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 407.
1881. =2.= _Gard. Chron._ =26=:717. 1886. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 428.
1889.

_Bamberger Eier Pflaume_ 3 incor. _Blaue Eier_ 3 incor. _Dark Blue Egg_
2. _Dunkelblaue Eierpflaume_ 1. Dunkleblaue Eierpflaume 3. _Liegel’s
Marokko?_ 3. _Rodt’s Grosse Früh Pflaumen-Zwetsche_ 3. _Ungarische Blaue
Eier_ 3.

A plum very well known in Germany. Tree large, productive; fruit large,
oval; skin thick, not adherent, tough, somewhat sour, bluish-black; flesh
yellowish, juicy, slightly sweet; clingstone.

=Kampeska.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._
=50=:38. 1898.

Tree productive, slow and stocky in growth; fruit small to medium, round;
stem of medium length, thick; skin thick, purplish-red; bloom heavy; of
medium quality; clingstone.

=Kanawha.= Hortulana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 136. 1875. =2.= _Ga.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 24. 1881. =3.= _Rev. Hort._ 535. 1893. =4.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 180, 181. 1901.

_Canawa_ 1. _Peach-leaved_ 2. _Prune Kanawa_ 3. _Rains_ 1.

Introduced by P. J. Berckmans who had received it from J. S. Downer of
Kentucky in 1871. Fruit of medium size, oval; suture a line; dots many,
white; bright red with a thin bloom; skin firm; flesh firm, meaty,
sprightly; good; clingstone; season late; mentioned in the catalogs of
the American Pomological Society from 1875 to 1899.

=Kazan.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Rpt._ 111. 1887.

A foreign plum listed by the Michigan Experiment Station.

=Keindt.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 444. 1881.

Keindt’s Frühdamascene 1.

A German variety noted as unproductive on dry soil.

=Keith.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 436. 1888. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:277. 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 155. 1901.

Kieth 3.

Of the De Soto type, from Delaware County, Iowa, previous to 1888. Fruit
large, roundish-oblong; cavity shallow; stem short, thick; skin thin;
orange overlaid with red; bloom thin; flesh yellow, firm, sweet, not
juicy; good to best; stone large, flattened, clinging; mid-season; does
not thrive in the South.

=Kelbalan.= Triflora × Cerasifera. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1899.

Kelsey No. 3.

Grown by Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska, from a seed of Kelsey
pollinated with Early Cherry. Tree somewhat like Myrobalan; fruit large,
roundish-conic, yellow shaded with red; clingstone; good.

=Kelley.= Species? =1.= Van Lindley _Cat._ 1899.

Originated in South Carolina; introduced by R. Bates of Jackson, South
Carolina. Tree prolific; fruit medium in size, yellow; good; early.

=Kelmyro.= Triflora × Cerasifera. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1899.

Kelsey No. 1.

From Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska; from seed of Kelsey,
pollinated with Early Cherry. Very productive; fruit medium, round,
pointed, dark red on a yellow ground; stone small, clinging; mid-season.

=Kelroba.= Triflora × Cerasifera. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1899.

Kelsey No. 2.

The same origin as Kelmyro. Tree vigorous, upright, productive; fruit
above medium, round, pointed, yellow overlaid with light red; high
flavor; stone small, clinging.

=Kelsaw.= Triflora × Munsoniana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:271. 1901.

An accidental cross between Kelsey and a “Chicasaw;” from A. M.
Augustine, West Point, Mississippi. Tree a rapid and thrifty grower.
Fruit the size of Abundance, round-oval; stem an inch long; suture
shallow; apex rounded; brilliant transparent red; dots minute; bloom
thin; skin thin and tough; flesh yellow with pink markings, firm, sweet
and rich; good to very good; clingstone; early.

=Kelsey Prune.= Domestica. Mentioned in Wild Bros. _Cat._ 1892.

=Kelso.= Domestica? =1.= Vandevoort _Cat._

Kelso is a yellow plum found about 1870 on the farm of Philip Cline of
Sabina, Ohio. Peter Kelso, who afterwards purchased the Cline farm,
brought the plum to J. M. Vandevoort, who introduced it about twenty-five
years ago.

=Kenellan.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.

=Kennedy Red.= Species? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:53. 1900.

A weak-growing and unproductive variety tested in British Columbia. Fruit
small, long-oval; suture distinct; cavity small; dull red with a thin
white bloom and golden dots; flesh yellow, sweet, coarse, moderately
juicy; pleasant; clingstone; of no value.

=Kent.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 689. 1884. =2.= Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 424. 1889. =3.= _Garden_ =56=:355. 1899. =4.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._
2d Ser. =3=:50. 1900.

_Bush_ 1. Bush 2. _Bush Plum of Kent_ 4. _Kentish Bush_ 3. _Waterloo_ 1,
2. _Waterloo of Kent_ 2.

Found in a hedge at Boben, England in 1836. Tree hardy, strong, very
productive, fruit large, round; skin dark maroon; flesh firm; flavor
fair; fruit keeps three weeks after being gathered; valuable for market.

=Kenyon.= Species? =1.= _Mich. Sta. Rpt._ 111. 1887.

Listed as a native plum being tested at the Michigan Experiment Station.

=Kester Green Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 926. 1869.

Kester’s Green Gage 1.

Originated with a Mr. Weaver of Mt. Pleasant, Pennsylvania. Fruit small,
nearly round, one side enlarged; suture large; pale yellowish-green,
splashed with deeper green; bloom thin; stem medium in length; cavity
large; flesh greenish, juicy, sweet, rich; very good; semi-clinging.

=Kester Yellow Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 926. 1869.

Kester’s Yellow Gage 1.

Of the same origin as Kester Green Gage. Tree vigorous, upright with
smooth branches; fruit medium in size, roundish-oval; suture broad
and shallow; light yellow overspread with thick bloom; stem medium;
cavity small; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet, rich; very good;
semi-clinging.

=Kicab.= Species? =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 45. 1895. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 46. 1897.

A seedling grown by Benjamin Buckman, Farmingdale, Illinois. Fruit
medium, roundish-oval; skin thick, crimson with dark purplish stripes,
covered with thick bloom; dots numerous, variable; flesh yellow, tender,
melting, juicy, mild subacid; good to very good; stone large, oval,
clinging; early.

=Kickapoo.= Americana. =1.= _Penn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 52. 1892. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:39, 86. 1892. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256,
257. 1905.

Tree an open, straggling grower, very productive; fruit of medium size,
oblong to oval; cavity medium; stem short to medium, stout; suture faint;
dull red mottled with deeper shades; bloom heavy; flesh yellow, firm;
good; stone of medium size, clinging; mid-season; recommended for market.

=King.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =5=:148. 1869.

King of Plums 1.

A seedling of the Wild Goose which it closely resembles.

=Kingston.= Domestica. =1.= Ellwanger & Barry _Cat._ 1888-1894. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 112. 1901.

_Smith’s Prune_ 1.

Kingston closely resembles Diamond; its origin in Ontario, Canada, is
about all that distinguishes it.

=Kleine Blaue Frühzwetsche.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
437. 1889.

=Kleine Gelbe Eierpflaume.= Domestica. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437.
1889.

=Kleine Kirschpflaume.= Cerasifera. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437.
1889.

_Prunus Cerasifera Fructu Minore._

=Kleine Rosspauke.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437. 1889.

Mathieu records this variety as mentioned in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 288.
1884.

=Klondike.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:44. 1897. =2.= _Ill.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 242. 1898. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:277. 1900.

Klondyke 2, 3.

Grown by John Wragg & Sons, Waukee, Iowa, from seed of De Soto;
introduced in 1897 by W. F. Heikes, Huntsville, Alabama. Tree productive;
fruit medium to small, roundish-oval; cavity narrow, deep; suture a
broad line; skin thin, bright yellow shading into red; bloom thin; dots
numerous, small; flesh yellowish, sweetish, watery; quality fair; stone
small, clinging; early.

=Knudson.= Americana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 162. 1891. =2.= _N. Dak.
Sta. Bul._ =2=:18. 1891. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:44. 1897.

Kniedsen’s Peach 1. Knudson’s Peach 3. Peach 2.

Grown by H. Knudson, Springfield, Minnesota. Tree unproductive; fruit
drops before ripe; of medium size, roundish, purplish-red; flesh sweet;
clingstone; mid-season. Subject to plum-pocket.

=Koa.= Domestica. Mentioned in Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803.

Koa’s Imperial.

=Kober.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 228. 1909.

Kober originated with N. K. Fluke, Davenport, Iowa. Fruit large, mottled
and blushed with red; bloom rather thick; flesh moderately firm,
sweetish; fair in quality; clingstone; mid-season.

=Koch Königspflaume.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437. 1889.

_Karl Koch’s Königs Pflaume. Royale de Koch. Royale du Dr. Koch._

=Koch Späte Damascene.= Domestica. =1.= _Mas Pom. Gen._ =2=:161. 1873.
=2.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 403. 1881. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
437. 1889.

_Damas Jaune Tardif de Koch_ 3. Damas Tardif de Kock 1. _Koch’s Gelbe
Spät Damascene_ 3. _Koch’s Späte Aprikosen_ 3. _Koch’s Späte Damascene_
2. Koch’s Späte Damascene 3.

Liegel grew this variety from seed of Bricette and dedicated it to Koch,
secretary of a horticultural society at Gotha. Tree medium, round-topped;
fruit below medium, roundish-oval; suture a line; cavity shallow; stem
short, slender, glabrous; skin free, yellow spotted with red on the sunny
side; flesh yellow, fine, firm, juicy, sweet, rich; freestone; late.

=Koepher.= Species? =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =10=:18. 1868.

Noted as productive and free from curculio.

=Kohlenkamp.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =2=:313. 1860. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 122. 1860.

Kohlen Kamp 1.

A seedling raised by W. Kohlenkamp, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Tree
vigorous, very productive; fruit borne in clusters, large, oval; stem
short; cavity deep; reddish; bloom thin; flesh yellow, firm, dry; good;
freestone; late.

=Kopp.= Americana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 441. 1889. =2.= _Colo. Sta.
Bul._ =50=:39. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 155. 1901.

Introduced by O. M. Lord, Minnesota City, Minnesota. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit large, round; skin thick; purplish-red; flesh firm,
sweet; clingstone; mid-season.

=Korai.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 26. 1894. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 176. 1895.

_Quetsche_ 1, 2.

Received from Hungary by the United States Department of Agriculture in
1893. Tree vigorous; fruit below medium, oblong-ovate; sides unequal;
skin thick, tough; purple with numerous small, brown dots; flesh
yellowish-green, coarse, melting; subacid; good; stone of medium size,
narrow, pointed, clinging; mid-season.

=Kroos-Pruim.= Species? =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:58. 1761.

Originated in Holland. Fruit of varying colors and sizes, round; insipid,
watery. Propagated by pits. Useful only as a stock.

=Kume.= Triflora. =1.= _Am. Gard._ =12=:449. 1891.

An early variety.

=Lachine.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:38. 1903.

Similar to Yellow Egg; hardy; productive; good; clingstone.

=Lady.= Insititia. =1.= _Cultivator_ =3=:20. 1855.

Lady Plum 1.

A seedling of Mirabelle from Isaac Denniston, Albany, New York. Tree
slender, vigorous, productive; fruit small, oval; stem short, stout;
light yellow, with red spots; stone small, free; mid-season.

=Lakeside No. 1= and =No. 2.= Hortulana. Letter from Kerr.

Two seedlings from Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska.

=Lallinger Königspflaume.= Domestica. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 438.
1889.

=Lambert.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._
2d Ser. =3=:53. 1900.

Labert 1. _Labert’s Red_ 1. _Lambert’s Red_ 2.

A seedling from Ontario, Canada. Tree weak; foliage poor; fruit small,
heart-shaped; stem short; cavity lacking; suture a line; reddish;
bloom thin; flesh reddish-orange, juicy; poor; stone large, clinging;
mid-season.

=Lammas.= Domestica. =1.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1529. 1688. =2.= _Lond.
Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.

Mentioned by Ray as being one of the best sorts of his time.

=Lancaster.= Munsoniana × Hortulana mineri? =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 186.
1901.

Grown by Charles B. Camp of Cheney, Nebraska, from a seed of Wild Goose
supposed to have been crossed with Miner.

=Lang.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:21. 1905.

_Rang_ 1.

Sent to the South Dakota Station by C. W. H. Heideman of Minnesota. Tree
vigorous, straggling in growth; fruit large, yellowish; skin thin; flesh
sweet, juicy; good; stone small; keeps well; mid-season.

=Langdon.= Domestic. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =19=:461 fig. 36. 1853. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 386. 1857. =3.= _Ibid._ 927. 1869.

Langdon’s Seedling 2. _Langdon’s Seedling_ 3.

Originated with Reuben Langdon of Hartford, Connecticut; believed to be a
seedling of Washington. Tree vigorous, spreading; shoots strong, smooth;
leaves large; fruit large, roundish-oval; suture a line; purplish-red to
light green in the shade with some mottling; bloom thick; dots small;
stem of medium length, stout, hairy; cavity deep; flesh yellow, melting,
juicy, sweet, acid next to the skin; semi-clinging; early.

=Lange Violette Damascene.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
438. 1889.

_Blaue Damascenerin._ _Damas Violet?_. _Damas Violet Allonge._ _Damas
Violet Longuet._ _Das Blaue Auge._ _Langliche Blaue Damascene?_. _The
Great Damask Plum._

=Langsdon.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =5=:144. 1869. =2.=
Barry _Fr. Garden_ 418. 1883. =3.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:56. 1892.

_Illinois Plum_ 1. _Langdon_ 2.

Grown in Illinois previous to 1869. Tree medium in vigor; leaves
obovate or elliptic-obovate, pointed, with small glands; fruit small,
roundish-oblong, light red; bloom thin; skin thick; flesh firm; quality
fair; stone clinging, small, nearly smooth, turgid, short, pointed;
mid-season or later.

=Lannix.= Triflora × Munsoniana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 45. 1895.
=2.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:15. 1898.

Supposed to have been produced from Abundance crossed with Wild Goose.
Leaves large, oval, pointed, leathery; petiole short, stout, usually
glandless; fruit oval, of medium size, coppery-red; bloom light; skin
thin, tough, bitter; flesh yellowish, translucent, tender, juicy,
slightly fibrous, mild subacid, rich, slightly bitter at the center;
good; stone large, oval, clinging.

=La Prairie.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:44. 1897. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 155. 1901.

Taken from the woods about 1844 at Shopiere, Wisconsin; brought to notice
by B. H. Smith. Tree productive; fruit large, golden, slightly astringent.

=Large English Damson.= Insititia. Mentioned in _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d
Ser. =3=:51. 1900.

=Large Golden Prolific.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser.
=3=:53. 1900. =2.= Albertson & Hobbs Cat. 1904. =3.= Stone & Wellington
_Cat._ 1907.

_Vail’s Seedling_ 3.

Originated in Canada; a seedling of Yellow Egg. Tree vigorous, spreading;
fruit above medium size, oblong, golden-yellow; flesh yellow, juicy,
sweet, pleasant; early.

=Large Green Drying.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.
=2.= _Mag. Hort._ =6=:94. 1840. =3.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ 518. 1859.
=4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 927. 1869. =5.= Mas. _Pom. Gen._ =2=:191.
1873. =6.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 366. 1895.

_Grosse à sécher de Knight_ 6. _Knight’s Green Drying_ 5, 6. _Knight’s
Large Drying_ 4, 6. _Knight’s Large Green Drying_ 3. _Large Green Drying_
6. Verte à Secher de Knight 5, 6.

Raised by Thomas Knight; first fruited in 1838. Fruit large, round;
suture shallow; greenish-yellow; bloom thin; flesh yellowish, firm,
medium juicy, sweet and well flavored; excellent for dessert; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Large Queen.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 26. 1894. =2.=
_Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 176. 1895.

Imported from Hungary by the United States Department of Agriculture
in 1893 and fruited by E. C. Hoskins of Springbrook, Oregon. Fruit of
medium size, roundish-oblate, dark wine color; bloom light; dots many,
conspicuous; skin thick; flesh greenish-yellow, coarse, mild subacid;
good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Large Sugar Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 572. 1876. =2.=
Lange _Allgem. Garten._ =2=:421. 1879. =3.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
440. 1881. =4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 434. 1889.

_Ananas Zwetsche_ 4 incor. _Bely Zwetsche_ 4. _Blaue Eier Pflaume_
4. Dörell’s Grosse Ungarische Pflaume 4. Grosse Zuckerzwetsche 3, 4.
_Herrenhäuser Blaue Eier Pflaume_ 4. _Jacobi Zwetsche_ 4. _Kladrauer
Pflaume_ 4. _Quetsche Sucree_ 4.

An early German prune used for table, market and drying. Tree large,
broad-headed, productive; shoots pubescent, straight, dark brown; fruit
large, oval, sometimes ovate; suture shallow; sides unequal; stem long,
glabrous; skin free, sour, bluish-black; bloom thick; flesh yellow, firm,
juicy, rich, sweet; freestone.

=Large White Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:72,
Pl. 3 fig. 2. 1768. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:88. 1832. =3.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 952. 1869. =4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 709. 1884. =5.= _Guide
Prat._ 161, 357. 1895.

_Damas Blanc_ 3, 4. _Damas Blanc Gros_ 2, 3. _Damas Blanc Hâtif Gros_ 3,
4. _Damas Blanc Tres Hâtif_ 4. _Damas Gros Blanc_ 5. _Gros Damas Blanc_
2, 4. Gros Damas Blanc 1, 5. Large White Damask 4. _Large White Damask_
2. White Damask 3.

Probably of French origin; resembles the Small White Damson closely but
is larger and longer. Branches smooth; fruit below medium, roundish-oval,
greenish-yellow; bloom thin; flesh medium in sweetness and flavor;
adapted for cooking; freestone; late.

=Late Black Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 70. 1699.
=2.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:73. 1768. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._
=2=:89. 1832. =4.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:495. 1860.

_Black Damson_ 3. _Damas Noir_ 3. Damas Noir Tardif 2, 4. _Damas Noir
Tardif_ 3. Late Damask? 1.

Fruit small, elongated, purplish-black; cavity shallow; suture a line;
flesh yellowish-green, acid until thoroughly ripe; nearly freestone.

=Late Blood.= Triflora. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:23. 1894. =2.=
_Ibid._ =106=:56. 1896.

_Burbank No. 3_ 1, 2. _Hale_ 2. Hale 1.

Luther Burbank imported this variety in 1885; Bailey named it Hale in
1894 but changed it to Late Blood two years later. Similar to Satsuma;
later, blooms earlier, is less pointed and differs in leaf-characters.

=Late Bolmer.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 404. 1857. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

_Winter Bolmar_ 2.

Fruit of medium size, roundish, yellow, mottled with red in the sun;
flesh yellow, firm, sweet but not rich; freestone; mid-season.

=Late Chalons.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:99. 1832. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.

_Tardif de Chalons_ 1. _Tardive de Chalons_ 1, 2. Späte von Chalons 2.

Fruit of medium size, oval, light yellow with red blush, deepening to
violet; flesh yellowish, melting, juicy, sweet; stone rough, clinging;
very late.

=Late Conical.= Triflora × Simonii. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:16 fig.
1898.

Originated by Burbank; named in 1898. Tree of rapid growth; leaves
medium to large, broadly oval, abruptly pointed, tapering at the base,
rather stiff, margins coarsely double-crenulate; petiole large, set
with glands; fruit strongly conical, large; cavity shallow, abrupt;
stem short; suture shallow; yellow overlaid with purple and red; dots
numerous, large; bloom heavy; skin medium in thickness; flesh yellow,
firm, sweet and agreeable; very good; stone of medium size, flattened,
pointed, free.

=Late Goose.= Munsoniana. =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 1909.

From Theodore Williams of Nebraska. Fruit very large; handsome.

=Late Orange.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =12=:593. 1892. =2.=
_Garden_ =64=:262. 1903. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 423. 1903.

Late Orange originated with Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, first
fruiting in 1888; introduced by the originator in 1897. Tree vigorous;
fruit similar to Reine Claude in size and appearance; flesh yellow,
juicy, sweet; very good; season very late.

=Late Prolific.= Domestica. =1.= _Fish Hardy Fr. Bk._ =2=:56. 1882. =2.=
Rivers _Cat._ 35. 1898-99. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 423. 1903.

River’s Late Prolific 1.

A seedling of Early Prolific. Tree vigorous; fruit below medium size,
round; suture shallow; stem of medium size; cavity lacking; dark purple;
bloom heavy; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy; flavor pleasant; stone small;
early to mid-season.

=Late Red Damask.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:85. 1832. =2.=
Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 261. 1832. =3.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1. 1846.

_Damas rouge tardif_ 1. _Gros Damas rouge tardif_ 1. Gros Damas Rouge
Tardif 2, 3. _Large Late Red Damask_ 2. _Late Red Damson_ 1.

According to Kenrick and Prince this variety was described in the 1825
edition of Duhamel’s _Traité des Arbres Fruitiers_. Its description
resembles that of Orleans very closely but its season is evidently later.
Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, oval; skin thick, adherent to
the flesh, light purple; flesh yellow, melting, slightly coarse, juicy,
sweet; good; late.

=Late Reine Claude.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 148. 1831.
=2.= _Horticulturist_ =2=:479. 1847. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 395.
1857. =4.= _Ibid._ 935. 1869. =5.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 364. 1895.

_Late Gage_ 4. Late Green Gage 1. _Late Green Gage_ 4. _October Green
Gage_ ?2. October Green Gage 4. _Reine-Claude d’Octobre_ ?2, 4.
Reine-Claude d’October 3. _Reine-Claude Tardive_ 4. Reine-Claude Tardive
2, 4.

First mentioned in the London Horticultural Society catalog in 1831.
Origin unknown. Tree vigorous; shoots smooth, stout, short-jointed; fruit
small, roundish; apex dimpled; skin greenish-yellow, mottled with red
on the sunny side; bloom thin; flesh green, juicy, rich, sugary; good;
freestone; late.

=Late Rivers.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 369. 1866. =2.=
Nicholson _Dict. Gard._ =3=:166. =3.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:158.
1901. =4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

_Tardive de Rivers_ 4.

A seedling from Thomas Rivers of Sawbridgeworth, England; first fruited
in 1865. Branches smooth; fruit of medium size, round; suture shallow;
stem long, slender; dark purple; flesh yellow, rich, sweet, sugary;
flavor pleasant; clingstone; very late.

=Late Rollingstone.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:39, 42.
1892. =2.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:39. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 155.
1901.

A seedling of Rollingstone, grown by O. M. Lord of Minnesota. Tree
medium in vigor, with a round, compact head; leaves obovate-oblong,
short-acuminate, irregularly crenate; shoots red, smooth, glossy;
petioles glandular, pubescent; fruit medium in size, roundish-oblate;
cavity shallow; suture faint; yellow background overlaid with red; stem
of medium length; dots numerous, yellow; bloom thick; skin thick; flesh
yellow, firm; fair to good; stone of medium size, broad-oval, smooth,
flattened; late.

=Late Transparent.= Domestica. =1.= Nicholson _Dict. Gard._ =3=:167. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:188. 1897. =3.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:158.
1901.

Late Transparent Gage 1.

A seedling of Transparent from Thomas Rivers of Sawbridgeworth, England.
Tree dwarf, hardy, productive; fruit large, round, greenish-yellow, with
purplish blush in the sun; flesh yellowish, firm, tender, juicy, sweet;
high quality; stone very small; season ten days later than its parent.

=Laubinger Sugar Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
=441.= 1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

_Laubinger’s Catharinen Pflaume_ 2. Laubinger’s Zuckerzwetsche 1, 2.

From Germany. A true prune of value for table, compotes and drying.
Tree vigorous, productive; shoots glabrous, violet-brown; fruit large,
long-oval; suture shallow or lacking, divides the plum equally; stem not
hairy; skin free, sourish; violet-brown to bluish-black; bloom thin;
flesh yellow, firm, rather juicy, slightly tart; mid-season.

=Laura.= Species? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:271. 1901.

From Theodore Williams, Nebraska; said to be a cross between Quackenboss
and Red Glass. Tree apparently a pure Americana according to Mr. Williams.

=Lawrence Early.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 928. 1869. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

Lawrence 1. _Lawrence’s Early_ 1. Lawrence’s Early 2, 3. _Lawrence’s Früh
Rote Pflaume_ 3.

This plum differs from the well-known American variety, Lawrence, in that
it is smaller, of poorer quality, purple and earlier.

=Lawson.= Domestica. =1.= McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ =2=:531. 1855. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 928. 1869. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:141. 1866-73.
=4.= Lange _Allgem. Garten._ 421. 1879. =5.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 710. 1884.

_Anna Lawson_ 3. Anna Lawson 4. _Damas Lawson_ 2, 5. _Dorée de Lawson_
3. _Golden Gage Lawson_ 2. Lawson’s Golden 1, 5. _Lawson’s Golden_ 3.
Lawson’s Golden Gage 1.

A seedling of Reine Claude pollinated with Golden Drop, grown in 1842 by
Archibald Gorrie of Annat Gardens, Errol, Perthshire, Scotland; named
in honor of Charles Lawson a nurseryman of Edinburgh. Tree hardier than
either parent; fruit of medium size, oval; suture a line; cavity small;
yellow with dull reddish blush; bloom thin; flesh yellow, sweet, juicy;
good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Le Duc.= Americana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 134. 1887. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 156. 1901. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905. _La
Duc_ 1.

Le Duc was found growing wild at Hasting, Minnesota; introduced by W.
G. Le Duc. Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture faint; cavity small;
bright red; bloom thin; flesh yellow, sweet, pleasant; quality fair;
stone large, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Legal Tender.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:277. 1900.

Originated under cultivation with H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa in 1896;
first fruited in 1899; parentage unknown. Tree vigorous, productive;
fruit large, round, golden-yellow blotched with dark red; skin thin; fine
quality; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Leib Sour.= Simonii × Triflora. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:272. 1901.

One of Burbank’s hybrids; of the type of Wickson. Fruit large, round or
slightly oblate; stem strong; cavity wide; suture shallow; apex slightly
depressed; light red with thin bloom; dots many, prominent; flesh yellow,
firm, meaty; flavor peculiar, aromatic, subacid; good to very good; stone
medium, oval, flattened, clinging.

=Leonard.= Americana. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 90. 1885. =2.=
_Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:40. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 156. 1901.

Originated with Charles Gibb, Montreal, Canada, in 1873 from a wild plum
root obtained from Wisconsin. Fruit medium, round; cavity shallow; stem
slender; dull dark red, mottled; dots small; flesh yellow, not firm,
acid; quality fair; stone small, round-oval, smooth, semi-clinging;
mid-season.

=Leopard.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt_. =14=:272. 1901.

From Theodore Williams, of Nebraska, from a “Botan pit pollinated
with Red Glass.” Fruit large, round-oval; stem medium long, set in a
shallow cavity; skin thick; light rich red; flesh yellow, firm; flavor
Miner-like, rich and sweet; good to very good.

=Lepine.= Insititia. =1.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 570. 1876. =2.= Lange
_Allgem. Garten._ =2=:420. 1879.

A variety of the Damson type raised by Lepine in Belgium; probably not
known in this country; very similar to Norbet and by some said to be
the same. Tree large, productive; fruit of medium size, round, somewhat
compressed; suture shallow; skin removable, not sourish; dark blue; flesh
greenish-yellow, firm, sweet, wine-like; stone free; late.

=Leptune.= Hortulana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:56, 86. 1892. =2.=
Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fr._ 203, 206, 208. 1898. =3.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=11=:284. 1898.

Introduced by J. D. Morrow & Sons of Arkansas. Leaves elliptic-ovate to
elliptic-obovate, very long-pointed and coarsely serrate; stalks either
glandless or glandular; fruit of medium size, round; skin thick, dark
red; dots yellow; flesh yellow, meaty; stone medium, nearly smooth,
short-pointed, clinging.

=Letta.= Species? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 133. 1891.

Found in Buchanan County, Iowa; introduced by J. Wragg & Son of Waukee,
Iowa. Fruit as large as Hawkeye.

=Lewis.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 46. 1895.

Received by the United States Department of Agriculture from H. C. Cook,
White Salmon, Washington. Fruit large, roundish-oval; stem short, set
in a moderately deep, abrupt cavity; red, a little darker than Lombard;
bloom thin; dots numerous; flesh pale yellow; good to very good; stone
large, oval, free; late.

=Lewiston Egg.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 404. 1857. =2.=
_Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 222, 244. 1858.

Lewiston’s Egg 2.

According to Downing, from Lewiston, New York. Tree vigorous, productive;
fruit medium, oval, pale yellow; flesh yellow, not very sweet; flavor
medium; clingstone; mid-season. Rejected by the American Pomological
Society in 1858.

=Lex Plum.= Domestica. =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 263. 1832.

Noted as a large blue plum with rich, sweet, yellow flesh; very
productive.

=Liegel Rote Damascene.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439.
1889.

_Runde Rote Damascene._

=Liegel Apricot.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 369. 1866. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 351. 1895.

_Abricotée de Braunau Nouvelle_ 1, 2. Abricotée de Liegel 3. _New Apricot
of Braunau_ 2.

Liegel Apricot was grown by Dr. Liegel of Braunau, Germany. Fruit
of medium size, roundish; suture deep; yellowish; bloom thin; flesh
greenish-yellow, melting, juicy, sprightly; good; freestone; late.

=Liegel Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 161, 359. 1895.

A variety said to have been imported into France from England. Fruit of
medium size, roundish, greenish; bloom thin; flesh yellow, juicy, rich;
very good; late.

=Liegel Unvergleichliche.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 359. 1895.

Received in France from Bohemia.

=Lillian Augusta.= Domestica. =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 72. 1894.
=2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 136. 1894.

Grown by Richard Trotter, Owen Sound, Ontario. Tree hardy, productive;
fruit large, egg-shaped; cavity small and shallow; stem nearly long;
suture a line; greenish-yellow with a few broken stripes of deeper shade;
flesh light yellow, firm, meaty, juicy, slightly acid; good to very good;
stone medium to small, oval, turgid, roughened, partly free.

=Lillie.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 276. 1893. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 156. 1901.

A seedling of Hawkeye, grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; first
fruited in 1893. Tree vigorous and upright; fruit of medium size, round
sometimes conical; cavity broad, shallow; stem slender; apex rounded;
yellow overspread with mottled light and dark red; dots numerous;
bloom thick; flesh sweet, melting; quality best; stone pointed, free;
mid-season.

=Lindow’sche Frühe Werder’sche Pflaume.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu
_Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

=Lindsay.= Species? =1.= _Can. Hort._ =27=:22. 1904.

Lindsay’s Seedling 1.

Reported as a new plum from Guelph, Canada; large; good.

=Little.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:39. 1892. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =63=:45. 1897.

Little Seedling 1, 2.

Introduced by Charles Leudloff, Carver, Minnesota, but discarded by him
on account of its size. Fruit small, red; stone small, rough, cherry-like.

=Livland.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887.

_Livlandscher bierpflaume_ 1.

A Russian variety imported by the Iowa Agricultural College in 1882.

=Lizzie.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

A seedling of Harrison, grown by H. A. Terry; introduced by F. W.
Meneray of Council Bluffs, Iowa. Tree vigorous, spreading; fruit large,
pale yellow, with a red blush; flesh yellow, rich, no acidity; good;
semi-clinging.

=Lockey.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.

Tree dwarfish, lacks in adaptability, blights badly, short-lived; fruit
of medium size, greenish-yellow overlaid with red; good; clingstone.

=Lone Star.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 154. 1883.
=2.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:63, 86. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 196.
1901.

Grown by E. W. Kilpatrick, Texas, from wild seed produced in eastern
Texas. Fruit of medium size, oval; cavity broad, shallow; stem slender;
suture lacking; red; bloom thin; dots numerous, white; skin thin; flesh
soft, yellow, sweet; good; stone oval, clinging; early. Mentioned in the
American Pomological Society catalog in 1897.

=Long Blue.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890. =2.= _Mich.
Sta. Bul._ =118=:54. 1895. =3.= _Wis. Sta. An. Rpt._ =13=:214. 1896. =4.=
_Kan. Sta. Bul._ =101=:121. 1901.

Orel No. 20 2, 3. _Orel No. 20_ 1.

One of the Russian varieties imported by J. L. Budd about 1882. Tree
hardy, vigorous, unproductive; fruit medium to large, oblong-oval;
purplish-red with light bloom; dots numerous, small; flesh yellow, juicy,
subacid, pleasant; quality fair; stone rough and strongly margined,
semi-clinging.

=Long Leaf Wonderful.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:611.
1893.

Long Leaf Wonderful was sent out in 1893 by Luther Burbank; no
description is available and the variety is probably extinct.

=Long Red.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890. =2.= _Can.
Exp. Farms Rpt._ 401. 1898. =3.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._ =101=:119, 122 fig.
1901.

Orel No. 19 2, 3. _Orel 19_ 1.

Introduced from Russia by J. L. Budd of Iowa about 1882. Tree hardy,
vigorous; fruit medium to large, roundish-oblong, purplish-red; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet, pleasant; excellent for culinary use;
stone semi-clinging.

=Long Scarlet.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =1=:365. 1835. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 303. 1845. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 36. 1875.

_Red Gage_ (incorrectly of some) 2. _Scarlet Gage_ 2, 3. Scarlet Gage 1,
2.

Downing states that the original tree was first noted in the vicinity
of Newburgh about 1823 and that the variety was disseminated by him.
Tree very hardy, an abundant bearer; shoots downy; fruit medium,
oblong-obovate; cavity narrow, very shallow; stem three-fourths of an
inch long; bright red or purplish-crimson on the sunny side, pale
yellowish-red on the shaded side; flesh deep yellow, juicy, becoming
rich and sweet if allowed to hang; clingstone; mid-season. Listed in the
catalog of the American Pomological Society in 1875, but dropped in 1897.

=Long Violet Damascene.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
444. 1881.

Unproductive on dry soil as tested in Jeinsen, Germany.

=Longworth.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 74. 1895.

Said to have originated many years ago with Nicholas Longworth,
Cincinnati, Ohio. Resembles Lombard and is better in quality. Fruit of
medium size, roundish-oval, purplish-red; flesh yellow, sweet, pleasant;
mid-season to late.

=Lot d’Ente.= Domestica. =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 356 fig. 1891.

_D’Ente_ 1.

This variety is of the same type if not the same as the Agen.

=Lottie.= Americana mollis. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farms
Rpt._ 120. 1904. =3.= Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt. 424. 1905.

Lotta 3.

Originated with H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, from seed of Van Buren.
Fruit large, white or pale yellow; good; freestone.

=Louisa.= Americana. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 930. 1869. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Cat._ 37. 1899. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 156. 1901.

Found growing wild in Missouri about 1860; introduced by Samuel Miller,
Bluffton, Missouri. Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture a line; cavity
small; stem short; dull red; bloom thick; dots numerous; flesh firm,
yellow; quality fair; stone large, flat, clinging; mid-season.

=Louise-Brune.= Insititia? =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:71. 1873. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

_Louise Brune_ 2. Louisen’s Braune Damascene 2.

Raised by M. de Maraise, a Belgian pomologist. Tree vigorous, productive;
fruit round-oval; suture narrow and very shallow; skin purple; bloom
thick; flesh yellowish-green, firm, rather sweet; good; stone oval,
thick, free; type of the Damsons.

=Louisiana.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =139=:43. 1897. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 217. 1901.

_Normand No. 15_ 1.

One of the several seedlings sent out by J. L. Normand, Marksville,
Louisiana, who states that it is the offspring of a Triflora variety
crossed with a native; named by Bailey in 1897. Tree spreading, weak
and slender in habit; fruit of medium size, heart-shaped; suture faint;
cavity shallow; greenish with dull blush; dots many, whitish; flesh
yellow, fibrous, sprightly subacid; quality fair; clingstone; fruit drops
before ripe.

=Lovett.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =29=:47. 1887.

A seedling of Reine Claude from York County, Pennsylvania, about 1867.
Tree very vigorous and productive; fruit very large, roundish; suture
slight; cavity shallow; dark red; dots minute, yellow; flesh yellow,
firm, sweet; semi-clinging; very early.

=Lovett.= Triflora. =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 1898.

_Fourth of July_ 1.

A chance seedling from the Lovett homestead in Pennsylvania; introduced
in 1898 by J. T. Lovett, Little Silver, New Jersey. Fruit of medium size,
roundish; suture indistinct; bright red; bloom light; flesh yellow,
firm, rich, sweet, vinous, highly aromatic; good; freestone; very early.

=Lovett Late.= Domestica. =1.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 218. 1849.

_Lovett’s Late Long Red_ 1.

An excellent long-keeping variety mentioned by Cole in 1849.

=Lowry.= Domestica. =1.= Smith _Cat._ 1899.

Lowry’s Gage 1.

A chance seedling found growing in a fence corner at St. Davids, Ontario;
introduced by E. D. Smith in 1899. Fruit of medium size, yellow; good;
early.

=Lucas Königspflaume.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 421.
1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

_Royale de Lucas_ 2.

A table and market variety in Germany. Tree vigorous, productive in
moist soils; fruit large, oval; suture shallow, divided unequally; skin
somewhat sourish, easily removed, bluish-red to dark blue on the sunny
side; dots fine, yellowish, numerous; flesh soft, golden-yellow, sweet,
highly flavored; stone not always free; ripens before the Reine Claude.

=Luedloff.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:46. 1897. =2.= _Ibid._
=87=:14. 1901.

Luedloff’s Seedling 1, 2.

From Charles Luedloff, Cologne, Minnesota. Fruit medium in size, oblong;
suture distinct; yellow overspread with bright red; dots small, numerous;
quality hardly fair; stone oval, sharply pointed, nearly free.

=Luedloff Green.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:40. 1892. =2.=
_Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:46. 1897.

Luedloff’s Green 1, 2.

From Charles Luedloff, Cologne, Minnesota, about 1889; discarded by him
later. Tree regular and abundant in bearing; fruit medium to small,
oblong, flattened; skin thick, mottled with deep red; flesh firm, sweet;
fair quality; stone small, nearly free; medium late.

=Luedloff Red.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:40. 1892. =2.=
_Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:46. 1897.

Luedloff’s Red 1, 2.

Much like Luedloff Green but red in color. Tree moderately productive;
fruit very good; medium season. Good for culinary purposes.

=Lunn.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:35. 1903. =2.= _Quebec
Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 9. 1905.

_Montreal No. 60_ 1.

From W. W. Dunlop, Outremont, Quebec. Fruit large, oval; cavity shallow;
suture a distinct line; dark purple; dots indistinct, brownish; skin
tough; flesh yellowish-green, firm, juicy, sweet, rich; very good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Luscombe.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.

Luscombe’s Seedling.

=Lutts.= Triflora. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:131 fig., 132. 1899.
=2.= _Mass. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =1=:106. 1900. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:5
fig., 31. 1904.

_Wasse-Botankio_ 1, 2, 3.

Sent out under the name Wasse-Botankio but renamed in 1899 by Bailey
after Henry Lutts of Youngstown, New York. Tree vigorous, productive;
fruit small, roundish, dark red with numerous fine, golden, dots; bloom
heavy; flesh yellow, soft, with a slight almond flavor; good; clingstone;
one of the earliest.

=Lyon.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =104=:100. 1894. =2.= _Mich.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 367. 1896. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:246. 1899.

Bailey 1. _Bailey_ 2, 3.

Brought to notice by S. S. Bailey of Grand Rapids, Michigan, and grown
for a number of years by the Michigan sub-station at South Haven under
the name Bailey; renamed Lyon by the Michigan Horticultural Society
in 1896. Tree vigorous, upright, spreading, productive; fruit large,
roundish; suture slight; cavity shallow; clear yellow with light bloom;
flesh yellow, tender, rich, sweet, moderately juicy; good; semi-clinging;
mid-season.

=Lyon Apricot.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:53.
1901.

Received by the British Columbia Experiment Station at Agassiz from a Mr.
Spaath of Berlin, Germany. Fruit above medium in size; roundish; suture
shallow; bright red; bloom thin; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, sprightly;
good; stone slender, free; early.

=M. J. De Wolf.= Species? =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:25, 52 fig. 1905.

The most promising from a lot of seedlings grown by M. J. De Wolf,
Letcher, South Dakota, from seed taken from the orchard of H. J. Gurney,
Elk Point, South Dakota. Fruit large, roundish; cavity wide, shallow;
suture a line; red marbled on the shady side with yellow; dots many,
large, conspicuous; flesh dark yellow, tender, sweet, juicy; good;
freestone; mid-season.

=Macedonia.= Munsoniana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 19. 1897. =2.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 186. 1901.

_Transparent_ 2.

Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture faint; cavity shallow; light
red; bloom thin; flesh yellow; quality fair; clingstone; mid-season.

=Mackland.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1899.

Tree vigorous; fruit above medium size, red over yellow; clingstone; rots
badly.

=Macomber.= Domestica. Listed in _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 39. 1899.

=Macomber No. 1 and No. 2.= Americana. Letter from Kerr.

Two inferior seedlings from a Mr. Macomber of Vermont.

=Madame Henri Deschars.= Insititia? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

_Mirabelle Tardive Mme. H. Deschars_ 1.

Mathieu’s notice refers to _Journal de la Societe Nationale et Centrale
d’Horticulture de France_ 608. 1878.

=Madame Nicolle.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889. =2.=
_Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:53. 1900. _Souvenir de Madame Nicolle_
1.

A European variety tested on the grounds of the British Columbia
Experimental Station; inferior.

=Madam Leeds.= Species? =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:279. 1900.

A seedling unintroduced and of unknown parentage grown by George Temple,
presumably of Iowa. Tree resembles Poole Pride, productive; fruit the
size of Wild Goose, bright red; drops easily; late.

=Madeleine.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 156, 359. 1895.

Tree vigorous, moderately productive; fruit large, oval; yellow with
reddish spots; good; early.

=Madison.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =6=:355. 1849. =2.=
_Horticulturist_ =4=:214. 1849. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 355. 1867.

A chance seedling from the garden of Isaac Denniston, Albany, New York;
first fruiting in 1847 and supposed to be a cross between Bleeker and
Blue Gage. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit of medium size, oval; suture
shallow; cavity small; yellow with reddish blush; bloom thin; flesh
yellow, firm, juicy, rich, sweet, pleasant; good; freestone; very late.

=Mainzer Frühzwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439.
1889.

=Majestic Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Stone & Wellington _Cat._ 1907.

Introduced by Stone and Wellington of Toronto, Ontario. Fruit large,
purple; bloom heavy; freestone; early.

=Mallard.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 289. 1889. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:189. 1897. =3.= Rivers _Cat._ 34. 1898.

A seedling from Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England. Tree of moderate
vigor and hardiness; fruit large, oval; suture distinct; deep purple;
flesh yellow, rich, juicy; good; freestone; early; said to rot but
little; not hardy.

=Mamelonnée.= Domestica. =1.= _Gen. Farmer_ =10=:241. 1849. =2.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 371. 1866. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 157, 359. 1895.

_Die Brustwarzenpflaume_ 3. _Mamelon_ 3. _Mamelon Sageret_ 2.

Raised by M. Sageret of Paris, France. Tree of medium size; fruit
roundish-oval, strongly necked, yellowish-green, mottled with red; light
bloom; flesh yellowish, firm, juicy, sweet; similar to Reine Claude
except in shape.

=Manitoba.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.

Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval, clear red; freestone.

=Manitoba No. 1.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897. =2.= _S. Dak. Sta.
Bul._ =93=:22. 1905.

A wild variety from Manitoba, Canada. Fruit of medium size, bright red;
skin thick and bitter; very early.

=Manitoba Seedlings.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897-1900. =2.= _S.
Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:22. 1905.

Several seedlings bearing the numbers 2, 4, 5, 6 and 7 were grown by N.
E. Hansen of the South Dakota Station from seed obtained in Manitoba.
Early bearing and productivity are their chief desirable characters.

=Mankato.= Americana. =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 332, 481. 1896. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 157. 1901. =3.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 228. 1903.

_German Prune Seedling_ 3.

Originated on the farm of Louis J. Eider, four miles north of Mankato in
Nicollet County, Minnesota; introduced by S. D. Richardson and Son of
Winnebago City, Minnesota, in 1890. Tree vigorous, fairly productive;
fruit above medium size, oval; cavity shallow; suture faint; skin free
from the pulp; dull red; dots yellow; flesh yellow, sometimes red next
the stone, sweet, rich; good; semi-clinging; late.

=Manning.= Domestica. =1.= Manning _Book of Fruits_ 103. 1838. =2.=
Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 335. 1849. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 930.
1869.

Large Long Blue 1. _Large Long Blue_ 2, 3. Manning’s Long Blue 2, 3.
_Manning’s Long Blue_ 3. Mannings Long Blue Prune 3. _Manning’s Long Blue
Prune_ 2. _Manning’s Prune_ 3.

Received by Robert Manning from Landreth’s Nursery, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, without a name; probably a seedling of the German Prune.
Tree vigorous; fruit large, long-oval; suture obscure; cavity small;
dark purple; bloom thick; flesh greenish-yellow, firm, juicy, sweet,
sprightly, pleasant; good; stone long, pointed, free; mid-season;
ripening period long.

=Marais des Cygne.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 5. 1900.

Introduced by J. W. Kerr in 1900. Tree vigorous and productive; fruit of
medium size, roundish, purplish-red; good; clingstone; subject to rot;
mid-season.

=Marange.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440. 1889. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 156, 359. 1895.

_Petit-Monsieur?_ 1, 2.

Tree small, very productive; fruit small, round, reddish-violet; skin
unusually free; flesh yellow; very good for its season; very early.

=Marble.= Hortulana mineri × Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=12=:225. 1899. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 217. 1901.

_Fourth of July_ 1.

Grown by A. L. Bruce of Texas, who states that it is a cross between
Weaver and Crimson Beauty, but Waugh considers Mr. Bruce’s Weaver to be
Miner. Fruit small, heart-shaped; cavity medium deep; suture shallow;
dark wine-red; skin tough; flesh yellow, sweet, rich; good; stone small,
clinging.

=Marble.= Species? =1.= _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 412. 1899.

Originated in Brown County, Minnesota; tree vigorous and productive;
fruit small, round, mottled red; good; mid-season; subject to rot.

=Marbled-Plum.= Domestica. =1.= Rea _Flora_ 207. 1676. =2.= Ray _Hist.
Plant._ 1529. 1688.

_Marble Plum_ 2.

Fruit mottled yellow and red at full maturity becoming a uniform red;
flesh firm; good.

=Marcellus.= Americana mollis. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 9. 1898. =2.= _S. Dak.
Sta. Bul._ =93=:24, 50, 51 fig. 1905. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256,
257. 1905.

Grown by H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa from seed of Van Buren; first
fruited in 1893. Tree vigorous, upright-spreading; fruit of medium size,
roundish; cavity small; suture lacking; light red; bloom light; flesh
yellow; quality fair; clingstone; mid-season.

=Marcus.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 333. 1894. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =63=:47. 1897. =3.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:24, 50 fig. 1905.

Originated with M. E. Hinckley, Marcus, Iowa, from seed gathered from a
grove of wild plums on the Little Sioux River in 1870. Tree vigorous,
upright; fruit large, round, dark red, resembling Miner; flesh firm,
meaty; good; early.

=Mardy.= Domestica. =1.= _Ohio Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 9. 1890.

A seedling from West Virginia grown by a Mr. Mardy. Fruit large, oval,
red.

=Margate.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629.

Parkinson says of it “the worst of a hundred.”

=Marietta.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:264 fig. 1904 =2.=
_Ibid._ =68=:7 fig., 36. 1905.

A chance seedling found growing on the grounds of the Kennesau Wholesale
Nursery Company, in 1900, at the edge of a block of Triflora varieties.
Tree very vigorous, productive; fruit of medium size, broadly conical,
yellow overlaid with red; dots yellow; skin slightly waxy; flesh soft,
juicy, pleasant; quality fair; clingstone; free from rot.

=Marjorie.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

A seedling of Lottie grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa. Fruit large,
round, light yellow partly overspread with red; dots small; flesh yellow,
rich, sweet; semi-clinging.

=Marigan.= Domestica. =1.= _Quebec Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 9. 1905.

Tree productive. Fruit large, round, greenish-yellow with a blush; good.

=Marion.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897. =2.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._
=50=:40. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 157. 1901.

Tree productive; fruit of medium size, roundish, flattened at the apex;
suture a line; cavity shallow; stem long, slender; red on a yellow
ground; bloom thin; skin thick; flesh sweet, juicy; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Marketman.= Triflora. =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 1893. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
138. 1901.

_Shipper_ 1, 2.

A seedling of Satsuma grown by Luther Burbank and sold under the name
Shipper but changed by Waugh to prevent confusion with an older Shipper.
Tree moderate in growth, sturdy and upright; fruit oval, light red; bloom
light; flesh firm, sweet, juicy; fruit keeps and ships well.

=Marmorierte Eierpflaume.= Domestica. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440.
1889.

_Prune d’Oeuf Marbrée._

=Marster.= Domestica? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 96. 1887. =2.= Brown
Bros. _Cat._ 1900.

Marster’s 2.

Supposed to have originated in South Carolina about 1883; reported four
years later by J. R. Hart from Nova Scotia; introduced by Brown Brothers
of Ontario. Tree hardy, productive; fruit of medium size, oval, dark
purple; flesh fine-grained, rich; good; mid-season.

=Marten.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =6=:133. 1851. =2.=
_Cultivator_ =6=:268. 1858. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 931. 1869.

_Marten’s Seedling_ 3. Marten’s Seedling 1, 2.

A chance seedling found growing in the garden of a Mr. Marten,
Schenectady, New York, by Professor Jackson of Union College. Tree very
vigorous, productive; fruit large, roundish-oblong; suture deep; cavity
small; yellow, streaked with green and dotted with red in the sun;
flesh yellow, slightly coarse, juicy, sprightly; very good; freestone;
mid-season.

=Mary.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. & For._ =7=:19. 1894. =2.= Storrs &
Harrison _Cat._ 1898.

A supposed cross between Duane and Yellow Gage grown by R. A. Hunt,
Euclid, Ohio, about 1882; introduced by Storrs & Harrison in 1898. Tree
very productive; fruit of medium size, yellow; bloom delicate; flesh
yellow; good; mid-season.

=Mary.= Americana mollis. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900. =2.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Grown from seed of Van Buren in 1893 by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa.
Tree productive, spreading; fruit light red on a yellow ground; good;
mid-season.

=Maryland.= Angustifolia watsoni × (_Prunus besseyi_ × Angustifolia
watsoni). =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:41. 1898.
=3.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:17. 1898.

Grown by J. W. Kerr from seed of Utah Hybrid; introduced by the
originator in 1894. Tree larger than the parent; fruit small, round;
suture lacking; dark brownish-red; flesh soft, watery, sweet, pleasant;
quality fair; clingstone.

=Mas.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440. 1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._
163, 359. 1895.

Similar to De Montfort.

=Mason.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897. =2.= _Can. Exp.
Farms Rpt._ 464. 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 196. 1901.

Originated near Leander, Williamson County, Texas, with a Mr. Mason;
introduced about 1896 by F. T. Ramsey. Tree vigorous; fruit of medium
size, heart-shaped, red; flesh firm; good; clingstone; very early.

=Matchless.= Domestica. =1.= Rea _Flora_ 208. 1676. =2.= Langley _Pomona_
93, 97, Pl. 24 fig. 1. 1729.

_White Matchless_ 2.

Fruit yellow; bloom white; excellent flavor; very productive.

=Mathews.= Hortulana. =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 1902. =2.= _Ill. Hort. Soc.
Rpt._ 211. 1906. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =114=:139. 1910.

Matthews 2.

Grown by B. A. Mathews of Knoxville, Iowa, as a sport from Peach Leaf;
introduced by Stark Brothers, Missouri. Tree hardy; fruit small,
ruby-red; recommended for jellies and preserves.

=Mauchete.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:93. 1832.

_Mouchetée_ 1.

A French variety of the Reine Claude type. Fruit small, oval; suture a
line; cavity minute; greenish; bloom heavy; flesh green, firm, sweet;
freestone; mid-season.

=Maude Lacy.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

A seedling of Hawkeye grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; fruit large;
bright yellow with a red cheek; flesh firm; semi-clinging.

=Maugeron.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:76. 1768. =2.=
Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:52, 57. 1771. =3.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:42,
Tab. 195 fig. 2. 1796. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1. 1846. =5.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:81. 1832. =6.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 931. 1869. =7.=
Hogg _Fruit Man._ 694. 1884. =8.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 426. 1889.

_Damascene Maugeron_ 6, 8. Damascene von Mangeron 8. _Damascene von
Maugeron_ 8. _Damas de Mangeron_ 6, 8. Damas de Mangeron 7. _Damas de
Maugeron_ 3, 5, 8. Damas de Maugerou 1, 4. _Damas de Maugerou_ 8. _Damas
de Maugiron_ 8. _Damas Violet_ 2. Die Damascenerpflaume von Maugeron 3.
_Königs Pflaume von Maugerou_ 8. _Mangeron_ 6, 7, 8. _Maugeron_ 4, 8.
Maugeron Damask 5. _Maugeron Damask_ 6, 8. _Maugiron_ 2.

An old variety, probably of French origin. Tree vigorous; fruit large,
roundish-oblate; stem slender; cavity shallow; suture a line; purplish;
bloom thick; flesh greenish-yellow, firm, sweet and agreeable;
freestone; September. Prince states that there are two varieties under
this name, differing in size, but no other writer mentions the two.

=Mayerboeck Zwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440.
1889.

_Mayerboeck’s Rote Zwetsche._

=Mayer Hellrote.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 359. 1895.

_Mayer’s Hellrothe Damascene._

“A variety of little merit.”

=Mayer Königspflaume.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440.
1889.

_Royale?_ _Die Königin?_ _Royale de Mayer._

=Mayers Rothe Damascene.= Domestica. =1.= Mas Pom. Gen. =2=:87. 1873.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 359. 1895.

Damas Rouge de Mayer 1. _Damas Rouge de Mayer_ 2. Damas Rouge de Moyer 1.
_Mayers Braunrothe Königspflaume_ 2. _Mayers Rothe Damascene_ 1.

A seedling of Red Magnum Bonum raised by Liegel and dedicated to
his colleague, A. J. Mayer. Tree of normal vigor; fruit large,
thick-ellipsoid, slightly truncated; suture wide, shallow; stem medium
in length and size; cavity shallow; skin tender, not adherent; purple;
flesh yellowish, fine, melting, juicy, sweet and aromatic; clingstone;
mid-season.

=McCartney.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= Munson _Cat._ 1898. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 197. 1901.

Brought to notice by F. T. Ramsey, Austin, Texas; fruit of medium size,
roundish; suture visible; dots whitish; golden-yellow; flesh sweet,
melting; very good; clingstone.

=McGillivray.= Species? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 424. 1897.

Tree vigorous, unproductive; fruit small, oval, light red; flesh yellow,
juicy, slightly astringent; clingstone; early.

=McPherson.= Species? =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:479. 1899.

Tree low, bushy, thorny, hardy; fruit small, round, golden-yellow; flesh
yellow; quality fair; clingstone.

=McRea.= Triflora. =1.= _Glen St. Mary Cat._ 21. 1911.

McRea was grown near Lake City, Columbia County, Florida, from seed of
Kelsey; introduced in the fall of 1910 by the Glen Saint Mary Nursery
Company. Fruit of medium size, roundish; yellow, washed with dull red in
the sun; dots numerous; bloom thin; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, subacid;
good; mid-season.

=Meads.= Triflora. =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =64=:711. 1905.

Meads Seedling Plum 1.

A seedling grown by H. O. Mead, Lunenburg, Massachusetts. Fruit
large, light reddish-purple; flesh yellow, firm, juicy; good; stone
semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Mediterranean.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =6=:133. 1851. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 931. 1869.

Originated in central New York. Tree vigorous, hardy, productive; fruit
medium in size, ovate, necked; cavity small; light crimson; flesh yellow,
sweet, sprightly; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Meigs.= Domestica. =1.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 342. 1867.

Fruit large, roundish-oval; suture indistinct; dull reddish-purple, with
numerous gray dots; stalk long, slender, curved; cavity small; flesh
greenish-yellow, rich, excellent; clingstone; late.

=Melnicker Zwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440. 1889.

=Melon.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1898. =2.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:280.
1900. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:14. 1901.

From Iowa. Fruit medium in size, roundish; cavity lacking; suture slight;
yellowish-red; bloom thin; flesh fibrous; quality fair; freestone;
mid-season.

=Meneray.= Species? =1.= Meneray _Cat._

A seedling of unknown parentage from H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa;
introduced by F. W. Meneray of Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit and foliage
indicate a fusion of Americana and Triflora blood. Fruit large, oblong,
pear-shaped, yellow tinged with red; good.

=Mereton.= Species? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:54. 1900. =2.=
_Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 432. 1905.

Mereton’s Egg. 1. Merton’s Egg 2.

Fruit small, oval; cavity small; yellow; flesh yellowish; poor; of no
value.

=Meroldt.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 436. 1881. =2.=
Lauche _Deut. Pom._ Pl. IV, 13. 1882. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 712. 1884.
=4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440. 1889.

_Meroldt’s Gelbe Reine-Claude_ 4. Meroldt’s Golden Gage 3. _Meroldt’s
Golden Gage_ 4. Meroldt’s Reineclaude 1, 2, 4. _Reine-Claude de Meroldt_
4.

This variety was grown by Dr. Meroldt, Lischnitz, Bohemia, probably
from the seed of the Apricot plum. Tree grows quickly, medium in size;
fruit medium, roundish; suture shallow; skin adherent; yellow, sometimes
with reddish spots; cavity shallow; stem extremely short, finely hairy;
flesh yellow, firm, juicy, sweet, with Reine Claude flavor; freestone;
mid-season.

=Merryweather.= Insititia. =1.= _Garden_ =74=:527, Col. Pl. 1910.

This plum originated with H. Merryweather and Sons of Southwell,
Notts, England, and received an award of merit in 1907 from the Royal
Horticultural Society. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, juicy,
purple; Damson-like flavor; good; excellent for preserving.

=Merunka.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1890. =4.= _U.
S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 46. 1895. =5.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:279, 280. 1900.

Leipsic 2, 5. Leipzig 3. Leipzig Early Quetsche 1. Marunka 4. Quetsche de
Leipzig 2. _113 Riga_ 3. _Zwetsche Leipziger_ 2.

In 1884 J. L. Budd of the Iowa Experiment Station introduced several
plums from Russia. Among these the Merunka and Leipsic proved to be
identical. The name Merunka is retained because Leipsic has been used
as a synonym of German Prune. Fruit of Lombard type, medium in size,
oval; cavity deep, narrow; suture faint; apex depressed; purplish-red;
bloom thin; skin thin; flesh yellow, tender, sweet; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Merville d’Automne.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 162, 359. 1895.

A large yellow variety of good quality ripening about mid-season.

=Meyer.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894-1900.

Tree vigorous and productive; fruit large, round; cavity small;
purplish-red over yellow; clingstone; mid-season.

=Miama.= Domestica. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
=162=:256, 257. 1905.

Miami 1.

Miama as tested at the Ohio Experiment Station proved to be identical
with Lombard. J. W. Kerr of Denton, Maryland, who introduced the variety
in 1894 writes: “When I first received cions from the West, I thought it
was a native; but finding it to be a Domestica, dropped it at once.”

=Mignonne.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 149. 1831.

Reported by the London Horticultural Society as growing on their grounds.

=Miles.= Species? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:79. 1892. =2.= _Ill.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 135. 1903. =3.= _Ibid._ 424. 1905.

Said to have originated in Illinois from seed secured in North Carolina.
Tree productive; fruit small, light red; quality fair; clingstone.

=Miller.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.

Tree vigorous and productive; fruit large, round, red on an orange
ground; clingstone; mid-season.

=Miller.= Domestica. =1.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:241, 256, 257. 1905.

Fruit very large, roundish, sides unequal; cavity narrow, deep; stem
short, stout; suture distinct; dark purple on a dark green ground; dots
numerous, bronze; bloom heavy; flesh greenish-yellow, rich, sweet; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Miller.= Species? =1.= _Glen St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 1907.

Introduced by the Glen St. Mary Nursery Company of Florida in 1907. Fruit
of medium size, greenish-yellow; very good.

=Miller No. 1.= Domestica.

Miller No. 1 is an unintroduced seedling of German Prune supposedly
crossed with Jefferson; grown by D. J. Miller of Millersburg, Ohio. Fruit
of medium size, long-oval tapering to both ends; suture a line; cavity
shallow; deep yellow; bloom thin; dots conspicuous; flesh yellow, tender,
sweet, good; stone large, long-oval, semi-clinging, pointed; mid-season;
resembles the German Prune in shape and size.

=Miller No 5.= Munsoniana. Letter from Kerr.

Grown by David Miller, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania. Tree productive; fruit of
medium size, red; clingstone.

=Millett.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:25. 1905.

_Millett’s Wild Plum_ 1.

From South Dakota. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit small.

=Millett Early Red.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:25. 1905.

Millett’s Early Red 1.

A variety found growing wild near Pierre, South Dakota. Trees low and
bushy, hardy, unproductive; fruit small, red on a yellow ground; skin
thick; flesh firm, sweet; quality fair; stone large; early.

=Millett T. T.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:25. 1905.

From South Dakota; fruit very small.

=Millett Very Early Red.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:25.
1905.

Millett’s Very Early Red 1.

Not as early as Millett Early Red.

=Mills.= Domestica. =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 116. 1901.

Fruit medium in size, oval; cavity shallow; suture faint; purplish-red;
dots prominent, white; flesh greenish; quality fair; freestone; late.

=Mills Seedling.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:39. 1903.

Fruit roundish heart-shaped, below medium in size; cavity narrow,
moderately deep; suture a line; deep red; dots obscure; bloom light;
skin moderately thick, tender; flesh deep yellow, juicy, slightly sweet,
astringent; poor; stone of medium size, oval, flattened, nearly free.

=Milton Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =6=:94. 1840.

Reported by C. M. Hovey as fruiting in the nursery of Charles Downing,
Newburgh, New York, seventy years ago.

=Minco.= Hortulana mineri × Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:272.
1901. =2.= Munson _Cat._ 1902.

A cross between Miner and Wayland from T. V. Munson in 1896. Tree
vigorous and productive; fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; cavity
lacking; suture a line; bright, dark red faintly striped; dots many,
distinct; bloom light; flesh yellow, firm, rich, sweet, meaty; very good;
freestone; late.

=Minion.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 69. 1699.

Mentioned by Quintinye as a “yellowish-white” plum.

=Minnesota.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =31=:348. 1895. =2.=
Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:319. 1903.

A European variety introduced into Minnesota from Denmark. Tree vigorous,
very hardy; fruit large, ovate; suture distinct; cavity deep, narrow;
dark blue; flesh yellow, juicy, subacid; very good; stone small, free.

=Minnesota Seedling.= Americana. Letter from J. W. Kerr.

An inferior variety from a Mr. Macomber of Vermont.

=Minnetonka.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:40. 1892. =2.=
Kerr _Cat._ 1897. =3.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:41. 1898.

Introduced by Peter Gideon of Minnesota. Tree small, slow-growing, bushy
top; fruit small, oval, red on a yellow ground; skin thick; flesh firm,
acid; clingstone; mid-season.

=Minnie.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:280. 1900.

From H. Knudson, Springfield, Minnesota, who raised it from the seed of a
large blue Domestica plum. Tree vigorous, upright; fruit medium in size,
necked, greenish-yellow; good; late.

=Minnie.= Triflora × Munsoniana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:17. 1898. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 219. 1901.

Originated in North Carolina with J. S. Breece, who considers it an
offspring of Abundance pollinated with Wild Goose. The foliage resembles
that of Abundance.

=Mirabelle De Bohn.= Insititia. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:177. 1873. =2.=
Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 472. 1894. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 423. 1889.

_Bohns Gestreifte Mirabelle_ 1, 3. Bohns Mirabelle 2, 3. _Bohns
Mirabelle_ 1. _Mirabelle de Bohn_ 3. _Mirabelle Rayee_ 3.

Liegel received this variety from Henry de Bohn of Upper Austria. Tree
of medium vigor, productive; fruit small, roundish; suture a line; skin
tender, yellow, marbled with red; stem slender; flesh yellow, tender,
melting, juicy, sweet, aromatic; freestone; mid-season.

=Mirabelle de Flotow.= Insititia. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:105, fig.
1873. =2.= _Rev. Hort._ 476. 1901.

_Flotows Allerfrüheste Mirabelle_ 1. _Mirabelle La Plus Hâtive de Flotow_
1. _Von Flótows Mirabelle_ 1.

According to Mas, “this variety was obtained from a seed of Perdrigon
Violet by Liegel and dedicated by him to M. de Flotow, of Dresden, one of
the first collaborators of _The Illustrirtes Handbuch_.” Tree vigorous,
very productive; fruit small, spherical, yellow, dotted with red on the
sunny side; stem medium in length and size; cavity shallow; flesh yellow,
tender, soft, sweet, of Apricot flavor, very pleasant; early.

=Mirabelle de Ronvaux.= Insititia. =1.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 359. 1895.

“A variety of little merit.”

=Mirabelle Double de Herrenhausen.= Insititia. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut.
Obst. Sort._ 426. 1881. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 155, 360. 1895. =3.= _Rev.
Hort._ 476. 1901.

Herrnhauser Doppelte Mirabelle 1. _Herrnhauser doppelte Mirabelle_ 2.

Tree vigorous, very productive; fruit small to medium, yellow mottled
with red; flesh yellow, sweet; good; late, following Drap d’Or.

=Mirabelle Précoce de Flaford.= Insititia. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 440.
1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 360. 1895.

Reported as being similar to Early Mirabelle.

=Mirabelle Verte.= Insititia. =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:91. 1866-73. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 162, 360. 1895.

_Grüne Mirabelle_ 1, 2.

From a Herr Commans of Cologne, Prussia. Tree moderately vigorous; fruit
small, roundish-oblate; suture deep; cavity deep, wide; skin tender,
free; green marbled with yellow; stem short; flesh green, fine, soft,
sweet, aromatic; freestone. Resembles Reine Claude and may contain
Domestica blood.

=Mission Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Bailey _Cyc. Hort._ =3=:1376. 1901.

A large number of plums were planted over a century ago around the old
Mission at Santa Clara, California; after the abandonment of the Mission
this variety was found propagating itself by suckers and was cultivated
as late as 1870.

=Mississippi.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 50. 1885. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 187, 188 fig. 1901.

_Mississippi Red_ 2.

Introduced by J. M. Shell of Georgetown, Texas, about 1875. Fruit large,
oval; cavity very shallow; suture lacking; clear red; dots many, yellow;
skin thin, tough; flesh soft, yellow; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Missouri.= Munsoniana? =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 39, 41, 99. 1889. =2.=
_Ala. Col. Sta. Bul._ =11=:12. 1890.

An unimportant variety occasionally found in Alabama and Georgia. Fruit
of medium size, oblong, red; flesh firm; good; clingstone; late.

=Missouri Green Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 196. 1891.
=2.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:160. 1899. =3.= _Ibid._ =162=:239, 256. 1905.

Introduced in 1891 by Stark Brothers, Louisiana, Missouri. As tested
by the Ohio and New York Experiment Stations it appears to be either
identical with or a strain of the Imperial Gage.

=Mistake.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:210. 1898. =2.= _Can.
Exp. Farms Rpt._ 548. 1901.

Fruit above medium size, oblong-oval; suture distinct; sides unequal;
purple; flesh yellow, coarse, juicy, sweet, pleasant; mid-season.

=Mitchelson.= Insititia. =1.= _Gard. Chron._ 892, 894. 1860. =2.= _Flor.
& Pom._ 152. 1862. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 932. 1869. =4.= Mas _Pom.
Gen._ =2=:65. 1873.

De Mitchelson 4. _Mitchelson_ 3. Mitchelson’s 1, 2. _Mitchelson’s_ 4.

Raised by a Mr. Mitchelson, at Kingston on the Thames, England; a
seedling of a Damson. Fruit above medium size, oval; suture indistinct;
dark purple; dots few, fawn-colored; bloom thin; flesh yellow, tender,
very juicy and sweet; freestone; excellent for culinary purposes.

=Mivian.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 150. 1831.

=Mollie.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1900. =2.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
422, 424. 1905.

Molly 2.

Originated with Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska. Fruit small,
round, red, watery; clingstone; mid-season.

=Monon.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 11. 1897.

Tree very productive; fruit small, greenish with dull red blotches; poor;
clingstone; subject to rot.

=Monona.= Species? =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 48. 1897.

From Christian Steinman, Mapleton, Iowa; said to be the size of Miner but
two weeks earlier.

=Monolith.= Triflora? × Munsoniana? =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 46.
1895. =2.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:17. 1898.

Originated by J. S. Breece of North Carolina; thought to be a cross
between Abundance and Wild Goose although it does not show Triflora
characters. Fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity medium; suture
shallow; coppery-red, striped with darker red; skin thin, bitter; flesh
yellowish, translucent, meaty, tender, juicy, fibrous, mild, subacid,
rich; good; stone semi-clinging.

=Monsieur á Fruit Vert.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 441. 1889.

Mathieu found it referred to in _Journal de la Societie Nationale et
Centrale d’Horticulture de France_ 281. 1883.

=Mont Barbat d’Ente.= Domestica. =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 356. 1891.

An improved type of Agen coming from the Mont Barbat orchard in the Lot
Valley, France.

=Montgomery.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =6=:187, 294, 524. 1851.

_Montgomery Prune_ 1.

Found by E. W. Carpenter of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, growing on the
premises of a Mr. Montgomery about 1830. Tree very productive; fruit
large, oval, purple; quality very good.

=Montmorency.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:35. 1903. =2.=
_Quebec Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 9, 66, 68. 1905.

Reine-Claude de Montmorency 2. _Reine-Claude de Montmorency_ 1.

Montmorency is thought to be a seedling of the Reine Claude, imported
into Canada in 1790 by Lord Dorchester; extensively cultivated in the
eastern part of Quebec but unknown in the United States. Tree very hardy,
productive; fruit medium in size, roundish; cavity narrow, shallow; stem
medium in length; suture indistinct; skin tough, greenish-yellow, blushed
with red; flesh yellow, very juicy, moderately firm, sweet, rich; very
good; stone small, oval, nearly free.

=Montreal.= Species? =1.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 64. 1897.

Mentioned by Harold Jones of Martland, Ontario, in the report of the
Fruit Experimental Station for 1897.

=Moody.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =27=:15. 1904.

Tree productive; fruit large, reddish-purple, good; mid-season.

=Moon.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:42.
1898.

Fruit of medium size, round; no suture; deep red over a yellow ground;
skin thin; flesh moderately firm, subacid; clingstone; mid-season.

=Moore Early.= Insititia. =1.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =5=:116. 1898.

Moore’s Early 1.

An extremely hardy variety of the Damson type. Tree spreading; fruit of
medium size; grows in clusters; dark purple; good; nearly freestone;
desirable for jellies and preserves.

=Moreman.= Hortulana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 13. 1899-1900.

Moreman Cherry 1.

Originated by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska. Tree vigorous; fruit
large, bright red; clingstone.

=Morines.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 70. 1699.

A red plum noted only by Quintinye.

=Morin Hâtif.= Cerasifera? =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:59. 1771.

Fruit of medium size, round, red; resembles the Myrobalan plum except
that its leaves are larger and its season a little later.

=Mountain.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:35. 1903.

A promising variety from W. W. Dunlop, Outremont, Quebec. Fruit of medium
size, roundish; cavity medium; suture distinct; greenish-yellow more or
less overspread with dull coppery-red; dots yellow, distinct; bloom thin;
flesh yellowish-green, sweet, rich; very good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Mountain Plum.= Munsoniana? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 86. 1871. =2.=
_Gard. Mon._ =20=:177. 1878.

A late variety of the “Chicasaw” group.

=Mount Royal.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:35. 1903.

_Dunlop 54_ 1.

A seedling from W. W. Dunlop, Outremont, Quebec. Fruit of medium size,
roundish; cavity medium deep; suture distinct; dark purple; dots
numerous, distinct; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, firm, sweet; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Moyen.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68. 1699.

_Pitch Plum_ 1.

Mentioned by Quintinye as “a dry plum having a sharp and sourish taste.”

=Moyen de Bourgoyne.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:95. 1832.

_Moyen de Bourgogne_ 1.

Probably not the same as the Moyen of Quintinye. According to Prince it
is a large, oval, yellow plum, of indifferent quality; late. This name
applied to a purple variety is a synonym of Early Perdrigon.

=Moyer.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:54. 1900.

Tree vigorous, unproductive. Fruit of medium size, roundish; stem short;
cavity small, shallow; suture shallow; dark reddish-purple; flesh
greenish-yellow, firm, juicy, sweet, pleasant; clingstone.

=Moyret.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:31 fig. 16. 1866-73. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 933. 1869. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 441. 1889.

Moyret’s Gage 2. _Moyrets Gage_ 3. Moyret’s Reine Claude 3. Reine-Claude
Moyret 1. _Reine-Claude Moyret_ 2, 3.

A chance seedling of the Reine Claude obtained on M. Moyret’s place
at Neuville-sur-Ain, France. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit medium,
roundish, reddish to violet-purple; suture wide, shallow; cavity wide,
deep; stem rather short; flesh green, fine, a little firm, juicy, sweet,
aromatic; of high quality; freestone; mid-season.

=Mudson.= Angustifolia varians? =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 13. 1905.

A productive variety recommended for family use by the Georgia
Horticultural Society; fruit yellowish-red, juicy; clingstone; very early.

=Mulberry.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 282. 1845. =2.= _Mag.
Hort._ =13=:530. 1847. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 332. 1849.

Originated in the garden of Isaac Denniston, Albany, New York. Tree
moderately vigorous; fruit large, oval, strongly necked, pale with a few
crimson spots; dots white; bloom thin; flesh greenish-yellow, coarse,
melting, juicy, rich, sugary; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Muldraugh.= Americana. =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =5=:146. 1869.

Muldraugh’s-hill Plum 1.

Found growing wild on Muldraugh’s Hill, Harden County, Kentucky. Tree
vigorous, large, unproductive; the clusters of flowers which appear
before the leaves are mostly staminate; fruit large, light red.

=Mule.= Munsoniana × _Prunus persica_. =1.= Kerr _Cat_. 18. 1899. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 219. 1901.

A hybrid produced by J. W. Kerr from seed of Wild Goose plum pollinated
by the Troth Early peach; introduced by the originator in 1896. Tree
resembles the plum; foliage very much like that of the peach; worthless,
inasmuch as the buds do not open and contain only deformed anthers and no
pistil.

=Muncy.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892. =2.= Kerr
_Cat._ 1894. =3.= _Tex. Dept. Agr. Bul._ =12=:103. 1910.

Muncey 3.

Tree vigorous; fruit medium in size; dull red; clingstone; mid-season.

=Munson.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892.
=2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:479. 1894. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 38. 1899.
=4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 197. 1910.

Originated under cultivation by G. Onderdonk, Victoria, Texas; introduced
by the originator in 1888. Tree not hardy as far north as Ames, Iowa;
fruit of medium size, oval; cavity shallow; stem slender; suture a line;
bright red; bloom thin; dots many; skin thin; flesh yellow, soft; quality
fair; stone oval, flattened, clinging; early.

=Murdy.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:247. 1899. =2.= _Ohio
Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.

The Murdy as tested by the Ohio Experiment Station is considered
identical with the Pond, but as tested at the Michigan Experiment
Station, it ripens two weeks later, has a deeper cavity, finer texture
and lighter colored spots on its skin.

=Muscat Free.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:52. 1895. =2.=
_Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =27=:15. 1904.

Evidently a strain of the Italian Prune; imported from Hungary in 1894
by the Department of Agriculture and tested at the Michigan Experiment
Station. Tree low, spreading, slow-growing; fruit of medium size,
long-oval, flattened on one side; suture broad, distinct; black with
thick bloom; flesh greenish-yellow, moderately firm, juicy; very good;
freestone; not as sweet as Italian Prune and a week later.

=Muscle.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 577 fig. 1629. =2.=
Rea _Flora_ 207. 1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ 1529. 1688. =4.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:105. 1832. =5.= Watkins _Cat._

Red Mussell 1. Black Muscle 4. Black Mussell 1. _Mussel_ 4. _Mussell_ 5.
Mussell Plum 1. Red Muscle 2, 3. White Mussell 1.

Of very early European origin, once considered of value but now only used
as a stock; the old writers described both a red and a black form. Fruit
small, oval, dark red; flesh not juicy; poor; stone large.

=Musk Damson.= Insititia? =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 70. 1699. =2.=
Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:74. 1768. =3.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:33,
Tab. 180 fig. 2. 1796. =4.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:495. 1860.
=5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 933. 1869. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 425.
1889.

Christ’s Damascene 6. _Damas Fin_ 6. Damas Musque 2, 3, 4. _Damas Musque_
5, 6. _Damasquinée_ 6. _De Chypre_ 5. Die musquat Damaskuspflaume 3.
_Feine Damascene_ 6. _Musk Damask_ 6. Musk’d Damask 1. _Muskierte
Damascene_ 6. _Musque de Malta_ ?5, 6. _Prune de Chypre_ 2, 5, 6. _Prune
de Malte_ 2, 6. _Prune de Malthe_ 5. _Schwarze Muskateller Pflaume_ 6.
_Späte Schwarze Damascene_ 6. _Suisina Grossella Piccola_ 6.

Noisette suggests Damascus, Syria, as the probable place of origin of
Musk Damson. Fruit small, roundish; suture distinct; cavity small;
dark purple; bloom thick; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, musky; good;
semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Musk Perdrigon.= Domestica. =1.= Langley _Pomona_ 92, Pl. 23 fig. 3.
1729.

Fruit nearly black, with a bloom; freestone; early.

=Mussey.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:40. 1892.

Found wild in Kansas; introduced by Abner Allen. Fruit large,
roundish-oblong, yellow, mottled with red; flesh firm, good;
semi-clinging; very late.

=Nagate-Maru.= Triflora. =1.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =129=:114. 1901. =2.= _Ga.
Hort. Soc. Cat._ 13. 1904. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:13 fig., 31. 1905.

Nagatus maru 2. Nagats-Maru 2.

Resembles Abundance but is three weeks later. Fruit large,
oblate-conical, red over yellow; dots numerous; flesh yellow, firm; good.

=Naples.= Domestica. =1.= Wild Bros. _Cat._ 26. 1892. =2.= W. & T. Smith
_Nur. Cat._ 24. 1897. =3.= Storrs & Harrison _Cat._ 138. 1893-98.

Beauty of Naples 1, 2, 3.

Naples as catalogued by nurserymen is of the Yellow Egg type although
Lyon[228] and Thomas[229] knew a purple variety of this name. Tree
vigorous and productive; fruit of medium size, oval; cavity small; skin
thin, tender; golden yellow mottled with red in the sun; bloom thin;
flesh light yellow, firm, sweet, mild; good; stone oval, rough, clinging;
late.

=Native Red.= Species? =1.= _Ont. Fr. Gr. Assoc. Rpt._ 87. 1896.

Received by the Fruit Growers’ Association of Ontario from W. N. Snelling
of Ottawa. A very attractive bright red plum of medium size.

=Nebraska.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 174. 1901. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:278. 1904.

Tree spreading, vigorous, short-lived, productive; fruit medium in size,
roundish-oval; cavity shallow; red with numerous yellow dots; skin thick,
tough; flesh yellow, juicy, melting; fair to good; stone medium in size,
oval, clinging; late.

=Nebraska Seedling.= Species? =1.= _Country Gent._ =26=:238. 1865.

Reported in 1865 by R. O. Thompson of Nebraska as a freestone plum of
great excellence; trees very productive and free from curculio.

=Nebraska Wonder.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:281. 1900.

Found wild in 1892 by A. Webster, Golden, Burt County, Nebraska;
introduced by H. P. Sayles, Ames, Iowa, in 1897. Tree dwarf, spreading,
prolific, bears early; fruit large, round, slight yellow tinge, mottled
red when over-ripe, without astringency when fully ripe; ships well;
early.

=Neils.= Species? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2d Ser. =3=:54. 1900.

Under test at the Canadian Experimental Farm at Agassiz, British Columbia.

=Nellie.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:49. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 158. 1901.

Nelly 1, 2.

Fruit large, oblate; suture faint; stem medium; yellow blushed with pink;
flesh firm, yellow; good; stone of medium size, round, semi-clinging;
medium to late.

=Nellie Blanche.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =2.= _Rural N. Y._
=65=:726 fig., 730. 1906. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =114=:141. 1910.

_Blanche_ 3.

Grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; fruited first in 1897. Tree
vigorous, upright, productive, bears early; fruit large, oblong; stem
medium, set in a small cavity; skin thick; yellow mottled with red; flesh
meaty, very sweet and rich; good; stone large, clinging; mid-season.

=Nelson.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 150. 1831. =2.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 373. 1866. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:55. 1873. =4.= _W. N. Y.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =21=:20. 1876.

_Knevett’s Late Orleans_ 2, 3. _Monsieur tardif de Knevett_ 3. Nelson’s
Victory 1, 2, 4. _Nelson’s Victory_ 3. Victoire de Nelson 3.

An old variety renamed in honor of the famous English admiral. Fruit of
medium size, round, deep purple; flesh sweet and pleasant; freestone;
mid-season; suitable for culinary purposes.

=Never Fail.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:281. 1900.

Purchased of an Eastern nurseryman for Wolf but proved not true to
name; introduced by J. S. Haag, Hosper, Iowa. Tree vigorous, slightly
spreading; fruit large, round, red; good; ripe with De Soto.

=New American.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =26=:14. 1891. =2.=
_Ibid._ =93=:26. 1905.

Of no value in South Dakota because of its lateness.

=New Goderich.= Domestica. =1.= _Ont. Fr. Exp. Sta. Rpt._ =4=:66, 102,
110. 1897.

Thought to be a seedling of Lombard. Tree vigorous, spreading, hardy,
productive; fruit medium to large, round; stem short, inserted in a
shallow cavity; suture distinct; brownish-red with heavy bloom; flesh
yellow, coarse; quality poor.

=New Green Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 148. 1831.

Mentioned; probably obsolete.

=New Large Bullace.= Insititia? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 433.
1889.

Grosse Prunelle Nouvelle. _New Large Bullace._

=Newton.= Americana. =1.= Munson _Cat._ 8. 1894. =2.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
=162=:256, 257. 1905. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 23. 1905.

Received by T. V. Munson from Theodore Young of Wichita Falls, Kansas.
Munson says this variety is distinct from Newtown Egg. Tree vigorous,
healthy, productive; fruit large, oblong, irregular; stem short and
stout, set in a small cavity; suture indistinct; dull red; bloom thin;
flesh yellow; good; freestone; late.

=Newtown Egg.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:40. 1892. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 153. 1901.

Newton Egg 2.

Originated with Charles Luedloff, Carver, Minnesota. Tree open,
straggling, productive; fruit medium to large, oblong-oval, purplish-red
over yellow, thickly sprinkled with many yellow dots; flesh yellow, firm;
good; stone long, nearly flat, smooth, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=New Wine Sour.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 154. 1831.

=Nienburger Egg Plum.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:183. 1873.
=2.= Koch _Deut. Obst._ 570. 1876. =3.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
408. 1881. =4.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 548. 1901.

Niemburg Egg 4. _Nienburger Eierpflaume_ 1. Nienburger Eierpflaume 3.
Oeuf de Nienburg 1.

Found in the garden of a priest at Nienburg, Hanover, Germany, by M.
Oberdieck. Tree vigorous, an early and abundant bearer; fruit large,
obovate; suture broad and deep; dark brownish-red; bloom thin; flesh
yellow, firm, sweet; stone small, free; mid-season. Good for dessert and
drying.

=Nikitaer Blaue Fruhzwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
441. 1889. _Bal Erik._ _Blauer Spilling._ _Gus Erik._

=Nikitaer Dattelzwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
444. 1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 441. 1889.

_Bardak Erik_ 2.

Mentioned as unproductive in dry soil at Jeinsen, Germany.

=Nikitaer Hahnenpflaume.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 441.
1889.

_Hahnenhode._ _Nikitaner Hahnenhode._ _Rognon-de-Coq de Nikita._

=Nikko.= Species? =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:18. 1898.

Originated by Burbank and introduced in 1898; parentage unknown. Said to
be “a good, dark red, red-fleshed, conical plum.”

=Nimon.= Hortulana × Munsoniana. =1.= Munson _Cat._ 7. 1896. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 181. 1901. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 167. 1905.

A seedling of Wayland pollinated by Wild Goose; from T. V. Munson,
Denison, Texas. Tree moderately hardy, vigorous; fruit medium in size,
ovate; cavity shallow; crimson; dots numerous, white; flesh yellow, firm,
meaty, sweet; good; stone small, clinging; mid-season.

=Noire Americaine.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 441. 1889.

=Noire de Montreuil.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:68.
1768. =2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:92. 1832. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 714.
1884. =4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437. 1889.

_Bieler Pflaume_ 4. _Damas Noir Hâtif_ 4. _Early Large Black_ 1. _Frühe
Schwarze Pflaume_ 4. _Frühe Grosse Schwarze Pflaume_ 4. _Grosse Früh
Pflaume_ 4. _Grosse noir de Montreuil_ 2. _Grosse noire hâtive_ 2, 3,
4. Grosse Noire hâtive 1. Large Early Montreuil 2. Johannispflaume 4.
_Large early black_ 2. _La Madeleine_ 3. _Morocco Pflaume_ (of some) 4.
_Montreuil_ 2. _Noire de Montreuil_ 1, 2, 4. _Prune de Saint-Jean_ 4.
_Saint-Jean_ 4. _Waran Erik_ 4.

According to Duhamel, this name is used for two varieties. One is of
medium size, elongated, purplish-black, strongly resembling Gros Damas
de Tours; flesh firm, yellowish with a rather agreeable flavor; nearly
freestone; early. The other is large, round, of the same color as the
first, but its season is later and its flesh is coarse and insipid. For
historical notes see Précoce de Tours.

=Nolan.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =5=:148. 1869.

Probably a seedling of Wild Goose which it resembles very closely.

=Nolton Ungarische.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 441. 1889.

Reference found by Mathieu in _Monatsschrift für Pomologie_ 9. 1861.

=Nome.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

From H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa. Tree vigorous; fruit large, round, red
over yellow; good.

=Nona.= Triflora? × Munsoniana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:226. 1899.
=2.= _Ibid._ =14=:274, 277. 1901. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:252. 1905.

Originated with D. H. Watson, Brenham, Texas; introduced by W. A. Yates,
1897. Tree healthy, upright; foliage healthy, abundant; fruit medium to
large, oval; cavity abrupt; stem short; suture obscure; apex slightly
pointed; dark red, obscurely striped; dots numerous, small, yellow; bloom
light; skin thick, somewhat astringent; flesh yellow mottled with red,
fibrous, juicy; good; stone medium, roundish-oval, flattened, clinging;
early.

=Norbert.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 373. 1866. =2.= Mas _Pom.
Gen._ =2=:73. 1873. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 441. 1889. =4.= _Guide
Prat._ 161, 360. 1895.

_De Prince_ 4. _Lepine_ 3 and 4 incor. _Norbert_ 3. Norbert’s Pflaume 3.
_Prune de Lepine_ 1, 3. _Prune de Prince_ 1, 3. _Schwarze Mirabelle_ 3.

Found wild in the woods of Halanzy, Luxembourg, France. Mas distinguishes
Prune de Lepine as a separate variety. Fruit very small, round; suture
obscure; dark purple; bloom thick; flesh greenish-yellow, firm, sweet;
stone small, free. Useful for drying.

=Norby.= Americana. =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ =2=:298. 1903.

Originated with A. Norby, Madison, South Dakota; No. 13 of his seedlings.
Fruit large, roundish; sides unequal; dark red; stone round, flat;
mid-season.

=Norby No. 1.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:28. 1905.

Originated with A. Norby, Madison, South Dakota. Under test at the South
Dakota Experiment Station. The variety bears large, fine fruit of good
quality; mid-season.

=Norby No. 11.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:283. 1900. =2.= _S.
Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:28. 1905.

No. 11 1.

Another of A. Norby’s seedlings; grown from seed of selected varieties
in 1895. Reported by the South Dakota Experiment Station to be worthy of
propagation. Tree upright, hardy, productive; fruit above medium size,
oval to roundish-oblong; rich yellow overspread with red; bloom thin;
dots small, white, numerous; flesh yellow, firm; good; stone long, oval,
nearly free; early.

=Norman.= Munsoniana? =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:177. 1878.

Mentioned by W. S. Carpenter of Rye, New York, in 1878 as an improved
variety of the “Chicasaw” group.

=Normand Perdrigon.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:87.
1768. =2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:30, Tab. 177 fig. 1. 1796. =3.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:65. 1832. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc_. 1. 1846. =5.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 441. 1889.

Der blaue Rebhuhn aus der Normandie 2. Normannischer Perdrigon 5. _Norman
Perdrigon_ 5. Norman Perdrigon 3. _Perdrigon de Normandie_ 5. Perdrigon
Normand 1. _Perdrigon Normand_ 2, 3, 5. Prune Perdrigon Normand 4, 5.
_Prunus neustriensis_ 4. _Schwarzer Perdrigon_ 5.

A very good French variety. Fruit of medium size, roundish; suture
shallow; cavity small; reddish-purple; bloom heavy; flesh yellow,
melting, sweet; good; clingstone; mid-season.

Normand’s Seedlings. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =175=:151. 1899.

J. L. Normand,[230] Marksville, Louisiana, disseminated twenty hybrid
seedlings, numbered from one to twenty, which were selected from over
30,000 seedlings; most of these are crosses between Triflora and selected
native sorts.

Normand No. 5. See Alabama.

Normand No. 11. Triflora ×?

Fruit above medium size, oval to oblong-conic; apex pointed; stem medium,
set in a small cavity; yellow overspread with bright red; dots numerous,
yellow; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, aromatic, sweet, good; stone long and
narrow, clinging; late. Drops before ripe.

Normand No. 12. Triflora ×?

Inferior to No. 11 in color, flesh-characters and keeping quality. Drops
before ripe and has a tendency to crack.

Normand No. 15. See Louisiana.

Normand No. 16. Triflora ×?

Fruit resembles No. 12; greenish-white with red blush; flesh pale yellow,
soft, juicy, bitter; clingstone; drops before fully ripe.

Normand No. 17. Triflora ×?

Fruit the size of Burbank, somewhat similar in shape but less pointed,
greenish-yellow thinly covered with dark red, spattered with dots and
broken lines of paler color; flesh greenish, tinged with yellow, very
juicy, somewhat acid; poor; clingstone; drops before ripe.

Normand No. 18. Triflora ×?

Equal to No. 11 in size but inferior in quality; keeps and ships well.

Normand No. 19. Triflora ×?

Fruit about the size of Wild Goose, but not as regular in form; color and
bloom much the same as that variety; flesh of the same color but firmer
and of better quality than Wild Goose; stone medium, clinging; late.

Normand No. 20. See Georgia.

=North.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 934. 1869. =2.= Mas
_Pom. Gen._ =2=:143. 1873.

_North’s Seedling_ 1.

Raised by Professor North, Clinton, New York. Tree vigorous, bears
early, productive; fruit large, roundish-oval; suture broad and shallow;
reddish-purple; bloom thin; flesh yellow, melting, juicy, sweet; good;
clingstone; early.

=North Carolina.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =63=:50. 1897. =3.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897.

N. C. Seedling 1. _North Carolina Seedling_ 2, 3.

J. W. Kerr says this variety is subject to twig-blight; reported of value
in Iowa; fruit large, deep red.

=North Star.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:50. 1897. =2.=
_Ibid._ =87=:14. 1901.

Originated with Martin Penning, Sleepy Eye, Minnesota, from seed of
Surprise; resembles its parent very closely. Tree hardy, dwarfish; fruit
large, juicy, sweet; clinging; mid-season.

=Nota Bene.= Domestica. =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 257. 1832. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 293. 1845. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 425. 1889.

Corse’s Nota Bena 1. Corse’s Nota Bene 2, 3. _Nota Bene de Corse_ 3.

One of the best of the seedlings raised by Henry Corse, Esq., Montreal,
Canada. Tree very vigorous, productive and hardy, short-lived; fruit
large, round, pale brown sometimes shading to green; flesh greenish,
firm, juicy, sweet and rich; good; freestone.

=November Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =6=:92. 1840.

Raised by Henry Corse of Montreal and distributed at the same time as his
Nota Bene.

=Noyes.= Americana? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897. =2.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:283.
1900. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:14. 1901.

_Noyes’ Seedling_ 1. Noyes Seedling 2.

Originated with a Mrs. Noyes, Springville, Iowa, about 1881, from pits
purchased for California plums; introduced by a Mr. Osborn about 1888.
Craig places Noyes in _Prunus hortulana_ and Waugh, while classifying
it with the Americanas, suggests that it is _Hortulana mineri_. Tree
vigorous, productive; fruit large, roundish to oblong; apex sometimes
flattened or depressed; cavity shallow; suture distinct; skin thick,
tough, rather acid; yellow nearly overspread with red; dots numerous,
yellow; flesh tinged with red, melting, rich and sweet; good; stone
large, clinging; early to mid-season.

=Nutmeg.= Insititia. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 209. 1676.

Fruit the shape of a nutmeg, no larger than a Damson, greenish-yellow;
good; late; obsolete.

=Oakley Park Wild.= Species? Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 150. 1831.

=Oatey.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.

In answer to an inquiry Kerr states that “The Oatey is above medium to
large, dull purplish-red when fully matured; clinging. Tree does not
succeed here.”

=Oberdieck Gestreifte Eierpflaume.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
442. 1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 157, 360. 1895.

Introduced into France by M. Oberdieck, the German pomologist. Fruit
large, long-oval, yellow blushed with red; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet;
good; early.

=Oberley.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =2=:120. 1860. =2.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 934. 1869. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:131. 1873.

_Oberley’s Greenwood_ 2. Oberley’s Greenwood 1.

Originated in Northampton County, Pennsylvania, on the farm of a Mr.
Oberley. Tree thrifty, very productive; fruit medium in size, round;
suture distinct; skin amber, but nearly covered with rosy red; bloom
thin; flesh juicy; quality fair; clingstone.

=October.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =20=:454 fig. 1257. 1897.

Sent to the office of the Canadian Horticulturist by A. M. Smith of St.
Catherines. Fruit medium in size, roundish; skin thin, dark purple; flesh
yellow, tender, juicy, rich, sweet and very agreeable.

=Oddy.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 150. 1831.

Oddy’s.

=Odegard.= Nigra. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:50. 1897. =2.= _Minn. Hort.
Soc. Rpt._ 411. 1899. =3.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:28, 49 fig. 1905.

Odegaard 2.

Originated about 1888 near Brookings, South Dakota; found among a lot of
seedlings grown from wild plum pits sent from Minnesota; bought by H. T.
Odegard of Brookings; introduced by A. Norby of Madison, South Dakota.
Tree very productive, hardy and vigorous; foliage large; fruit large,
oblong; suture very shallow from basin to apex; dark red; flesh yellow,
juicy, sweet; good; early.

=Odell.= Domestica. =1.= _Col., O., Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 31. 1892. =2.= _Ohio
Sta. Bul._ =113=:160. 1899. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =30=:119. 1905.

According to the introducers, Augustine and Company, Normal, Illinois,
this variety was found as a seedling growing in a fence corner at Odell,
Illinois; introduced about 1890. Resembles and may be identical with
Lombard; ripens at the same time.

=Ogeechee.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:64. 1892.

Found wild in Georgia; introduced by G. Bourquin. Fruit of medium size,
round, red; clingstone; early.

=Oglesby.= Species? =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 135. 1903. =2.= _Ibid._
424. 1905.

Reported by H. T. Thompson of Marengo, Illinois, as a small, handsome red
plum; freestone; very late.

=Ohio.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 154. 1883. =2.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 187. 1901. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:279. 1904.

_Ohio Prolific_ 2. Ohio Prolific 1, 3.

Tree vigorous, productive, irregular in growth; foliage dense; fruit
medium in size, roundish, yellow overspread with bright red; dots
numerous, yellow; flesh yellow, juicy, melting; fair in quality;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Okaw.= Species? Noted in Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 175. 1890.

=Oku Botan.= Triflora. =1.= _Va. Sta. Bul._ =129=:114. 1901.

A variety sent out by the United States Department of Agriculture.

=Old Gold.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=87=:14. 1901. =3.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:30. 1905.

Introduced by C. W. H. Heideman of Minnesota. Tree hardy, productive,
subject to shot-hole fungus; fruit medium in size, round to slightly
oblong; cavity shallow; stem slender; clear yellow with a dark red
blush; dots small; skin thick, tough; flesh yellow; quality fair; stone
roundish-oval, smooth, clinging; mid-season.

=Olive.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629.

Noted by Parkinson as “shrubby; fruit like an olive in color and size;
very good; late.”

=Ollie.= Hortulana × Munsoniana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:226. 1899.

Grown by A. L. Bruce, Basin Springs, Texas; from seed of Wayland crossed
with Wild Goose. Fruit medium, oval; cavity shallow; suture obscure; dark
red; flesh yellow with some red; stone medium, round, flattened, clinging.

=Olson.= Species? =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:30. 1905.

Found on the Vermilion River, near Vermilion, South Dakota. Tree
productive; fruit of fair size; stone very large; late.

=Omaha.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:272. 1901.
=2.= _Ibid._ =15=:266. 1902.

From Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska; a cross between Abundance and
Brittlewood. Fruit variable in size, nearly spherical; cavity deep,
rounded; stem long; suture faint; apex rounded; light red, a shade darker
than Wild Goose; dots many, small; bloom considerable; flesh moderately
firm, yellow, juicy, rich and sweet; stone rather large, oval, flattened;
early; not introduced.

=Omega.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =2.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._
424. 1905.

Originated by H. A. Terry of Iowa. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit
large, slightly oblong, red over yellow with numerous light dots; good;
late.

=Onderka Damascene.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 442. 1889.

_Damas d’Onderka. Onderka._

=Ontario.= Species? =1.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 38. 1874. =2.= _Can. Exp.
Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:54. 1900.

Tree vigorous, very productive; fruit medium to large, roundish-oval,
marbled yellow; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; good; clingstone; early to
mid-season.

=Opata.= _Prunus besseyi_ × (Munsoniana × Triflora). =1.= _Circ S. Dak.
Exp. Sta._ 1910.

Opata was grown by N. E. Hansen of the South Dakota Experiment Station
from a cross between Golden and _Prunus besseyi_; introduced in a small
way in 1908. Tree productive; fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity
wide; dark red; bloom rather heavy; flesh green; said to be good; stone
small; very early.

=Orange.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:59. 1771.

_Prune de Orange_ 1.

Fruit of medium size, oval, yellow blushed with red; flesh soft and
juicy; good; freestone.

=Orange Cherry.= Species? =1.= _Kerr Cat._ 18. 1899.

_Orange’s Cherry Plum_ 1.

Originated in Florida where it is grown as a substitute for the cherry.

=Orel No. 21.= Domestica. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:30. 1905.

Introduced from Russia by Professor J. L. Budd of Iowa about 1882.
Unproductive and deficient in hardiness.

=Orenge.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 577 fig. 1629.

Mentioned by Parkinson as “a yellowish plum, moist and somewhat sweetish.”

=Oriental.= Triflora. =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =64=:743. 1905. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 234. 1907.

_Perry’s Seedling_ 1.

Introduced by F. L. Perry of Bridgeport, Connecticut, as a cross between
Burbank and Satsuma. Tree hardy, vigorous; fruit large; skin thin; flesh
dark, sweet; good; ripens two or three weeks earlier than Satsuma and
hangs a month after ripening.

=Orillia.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =26=:422. 1903.

A seedling shown at the Orillia fruit exhibit in 1903; grown from a
Lombard seed by Frank Kean. Tree vigorous, bears regularly; fruit similar
in size and appearance to Quackenboss with a smaller stone and heavier
bloom.

=Osage.= Munsoniana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Me. Sta. An. Rpt._
=12=:66. 1896. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 188. 1901. =4.= _Tex. Dept. Agr.
Bul._ =12=:103. 1910.

Osage 48 2. _Wonder_ 4.

Tree productive, tender; fruit medium in size, round to oval; cavity
shallow; stem slender; bright red with numerous light dots flesh yellow;
quality fair; stone medium, oval, flattened, clinging; mid-season.

=Ottoman Seedling.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:347. 1900.

Received by this Station for testing in 1890 from L. M. Macomber, North
Ferrisburgh, Vermont, as a seedling of Imperial Ottoman. Tree productive;
fruit medium to large, oval, suture slight or lacking; stem an inch long,
slender, inserted with scarcely a depression; dull red or greenish-red;
bloom thin; flesh yellowish-green, juicy, sweet; very good; stone medium,
oval, small wing; early to mid-season.

=Outremont.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:38. 1903.

Under test at the Central Experimental Farm, Ottawa.

=Overall.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 716. 1884.

Fruit large, oval; suture faint; stem three-quarters of an inch long
inserted without a depression; dark purple; flesh coarse, pleasantly
flavored; clingstone; mid-season.

=Owatona.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:52. 1897. =2.= _Wis.
Hort. So. Rpt._ 137. 1899. =3.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:31. 1905.

A wild variety from Owatonna, Minnesota. Trees hardy, productive; fruit
medium in size, oblong; suture distinct; red; flesh yellow, tender,
bitter; lacking in flavor; mid-season.

=Owen Sound.= Species? =1.= _Can. Hort._ =11=:259. 1888. =2.= _Ibid._
=14=:350. 1891.

Owen Sound Beauty 1, 2.

A seedling grown by R. Trotter of Owen Sound, Ontario, from pits of
an unnamed plum. Tree strong, healthy; fruit large, roundish-oblong;
suture distinct, dividing the plum into unequal parts; brownish-purple;
dots light, numerous; bloom thick; flesh orange, very juicy, rich and
excellent; freestone; late.

=Oxford.= Nigra. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:52. 1897. =2.= _S. Dak. Sta.
Bul._ =93=:30. 1905.

This variety is from Minnesota and resembles Aitken, but is more
vigorous; lacks productiveness; fruit large, roundish-oval, deep red;
flesh orange-yellow; good; stone large, thin, clinging; very early.

=Oyama.= Triflora. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 119. 1904. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 66. 1905.

A seedling of the Red June grown at the Central Experimental Farm,
Ottawa, Canada, from seed planted in 1895. Fruit of medium size, roundish
to broad-oval; cavity narrow, of medium depth, abrupt; suture a distinct
line, not depressed; apex rounded; deep red; dots obscure; bloom thin;
flesh yellow, firm, juicy; sweet, not rich; quality medium; stone small,
oval, clinging.

=Paddock Magnum Bonum.= Domestica. =1.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
420. 1846.

Originated from a pit brought from Russia in 1805 by a Captain Paddock.
Closely resembles the Red Magnum Bonum of which it may be a seedling;
clingstone.

=Paine.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =3=:97. 1868.

Paine’s Seedling 1.

A chance seedling raised by A. W. Paine of Bangor, Maine. Fruit medium
to large; oval; cavity shallow, one-sided with a small lip; stem long,
stout; suture slight; golden-yellow, blotched with red; bloom thin; flesh
yellow, coarse, rich, sweet; clingstone; early.

=Paisan Blanche.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:60. 1771.

Paisan Blanche et Double 1. _Prune de Paisan blanche and simple_ 1.

Fruit large, round; suture large, deep; greenish-yellow; flesh soft,
juicy; good; clingstone; very productive.

=Paisan Noire.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:60. 1771.

Prune de Paisan Noire 1.

Said to resemble “Paisan Blanche” in form, size and productiveness but is
purple and the suture is a little deeper, flesh more watery and inferior
in flavor.

=Palmer.= Triflora. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 46. 1895. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 47. 1897.

Probably a seedling of Abundance, grown by J. S. Breece of Fayetteville,
North Carolina, about 1892. Fruit of medium size, roundish-conical,
coppery-red with numerous russet dots; bloom light; skin thin, bitter;
flesh yellowish, translucent with yellow veins, meaty, tender, juicy,
fibrous, mild subacid, rich; good to very good; stone large, long, oval,
clinging; very early.

=Pander.= Triflora. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 47. 1897.

A seedling of Abundance grown by J. S. Breece, Fayetteville, North
Carolina. Fruit large, roundish, light to dark crimson; dots minute
russet, raised; bloom slight; skin thin, slightly bitter; flesh yellow,
translucent, rather firm, meaty, juicy, sugary vinous, rich; very good;
stone oval, medium in size, clinging; season with Wild Goose.

=Pappaconi.= Domestica. =1.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:499. 1860.

Imported into France from the Royal Gardens of Naples. Fruit larger than
Dame Aubert, brilliant yellow, ripens in September.

=Papeleu.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 716. 1884.

Fruit medium in size, round, symmetrical; stem moderately long, set in a
narrow depression; suture very shallow; golden-yellow when ripe, mottled
with pale straw color; dots small, crimson; bloom light; flesh yellow,
tender and juicy, rich, sugary and highly flavored; freestone; mid-season.

=Paquet.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 26, Col. Pl. 1894.

Originated in 1889 with Peter Paquet, Oregon City, Oregon. Fruit very
large, oval; cavity large, deep, regular; stem about an inch long, rather
stout, curved; suture moderate; apex truncated; yellow washed with red;
dots many, yellow; skin thick; flesh yellow; very good; stone oval,
semi-clinging; early.

=Park.= Domestica ×? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Ibid._ 25. 1897. =3.=
_Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.

Kerr says this is reputed to be a hybrid of _Prunus domestica_ with
a native variety. Tree upright-spreading; fruit above medium size,
oblong-oval; cavity broad and deep; stem of medium length, stout;
greenish-yellow; flesh yellow; good; stone of medium size, clinging;
mid-season.

=Parker.= Species? =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:52. 1897.

Reported as very productive and regular in bearing; fruit large; good;
early.

=Parrott.= Species? =1.= _Kan. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =30=:63. 1908-09.

Parrott originated with A. H. Griesa, Lawrence, Kansas. Fruit small,
bright red; bloom thin; stone small; very late.

=Parsonage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 367. 1857.

Originated at Rhinebeck, Dutchess County, New York. Tree very vigorous,
upright, productive; fruit medium to large, oval; stem medium; cavity
small; pale yellow splashed with green; flesh yellow, juicy, rich;
freestone; mid-season.

=Partridge.= Species? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:54. 1900.
=2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 548. 1901.

Grown at the Experimental Farm, Agassiz, British Columbia. Tree vigorous;
fruit medium, round; suture distinct; red with white bloom; flesh
yellowish, sweet, pleasant; early.

=Pasqua.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

Sent out by Thomas Frankland, Stonewall, Manitoba. Fruit large, red; late.

=Pathfinder.= Triflora × (Triflora × Simonii?) =1.= _Rural N. Y._
=68=:752. 1909.

Pathfinder, a cross between Chabot and Wickson, was grown by William
Strong Arkansas. Fruit heart-shaped, strongly pointed, dark colored;
flesh firm, fine-grained and sweet.

=Patten A.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:286. 1900.

Received by the Iowa Experiment Station from C. G. Patten, Charles
City, Iowa, with whom the variety originated. Fruit medium in size,
ellipsoidal, flattened at both ends; cavity deep; suture a well-marked
groove; bright red to purplish-red; dots small, numerous; bloom thin;
flesh firm, meaty; good; stone of medium size, winged, flat, clinging;
not introduced.

=Patten B.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:286. 1900.

Of the Stoddard type, from C. G. Patten, Charles City, Iowa. Fruit medium
to large, conical, somewhat pointed; cavity shallow; stem long; suture
clearly outlined; apex pointed; dark purplish-red; dots numerous, small;
bloom thick; skin thick, brittle; flesh yellow-brown; good; stone large,
flat, clinging.

=Peach Leaf.= Hortulana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:52. 1897. 2. _Vt.
Sta. An. Rpt._ =11=:285. 1898.

_Peachleaf_ 2.

A variety of unknown origin grown for many years by B. A. Mathews of
Iowa. Given as synonymous to Kanawha by the American Pomological Society.
Waugh says this is an error. Fruit medium in size, round; cavity slight;
suture a faint line; deep wine red; dots many, small; flesh yellow, firm;
good; stone medium, rough.

=Peach-plum.= Domestica. =1.= _Ray Hist. Plant._ =2=:1529. 1688. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 208. 1676.

Peach Plum 1.

A yellow variety grown in the Seventeenth Century.

=Peake.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629.

Parkinson says of it, “long, whitish and very good.”

=Pearl.= Americana mollis. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 11. 1898. =2.= Terry _Cat._
5. 1900. =3.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 424. 1905.

From H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; grown from seed of Van Buren planted
about 1891. Tree very productive, vigorous, upright; fruit large, white
becoming pale red; of best quality; ripens last of August.

=Pear Plum.= Domestica. =1.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:45, Tab. 199 fig. 2.
1796. =2.= _N. E. Farmer Dict._ 266. 1797.

Die veilchenfarbige Birnpflaume 1. _Prune poire grosse violette_ 1.

Kraft in 1796 described a little-known Pear plum. Tree medium in size,
unproductive; fruit very large, pear-shaped; suture distinct; stem long;
reddish-purple; flesh juicy, unpleasant; freestone. This may or may not
be the same as the New England variety of this name mentioned in the
references.

=Peasant.= Species? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:55. 1900.

Tested by the Experimental Farm at Agassiz, British Columbia. Tree
vigorous; fruit small, roundish, purple; flesh yellowish, juicy, sweet;
mid-season.

=Peerless.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

A seedling of Harrison grown by H. A. Terry and introduced by F. W.
Meneray, Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit large, oblong, dark red; skin thin;
flesh yellow, firm; good; freestone.

=Pekin.= Species? Letter from Kerr.

Originated by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska.

=Pendent.= Munsoniana × Hortulana mineri. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 19. 1898. =2.=
_Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:18. 1898.

A cross between Pottawattamie and Forest Garden from Theodore Williams of
Benson, Nebraska; introduced by J. W. Kerr in 1898. Tree slender, a rapid
grower, productive; fruit medium to large, roundish inclined to oblong,
red; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Penning.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 11. 1897. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
160. 1901.

_Penning’s Free_ 2. Penning’s Free 1.

Originated with Martin Penning of Minnesota; a perfect freestone.

=Penning Peach.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 7. 1896. =2.= _Wis. Sta.
Bul._ =63=:52. 1897. =3.= Kerr _Cat._ 11. 1899.

C. W. H. Heideman of Minnesota says this variety was introduced about
thirty years ago as the Peach plum and was sold under that name by
Northwestern nurserymen; he added the name Penning to avoid confusion; it
closely resembles Harrison and is by some considered identical with that
variety. Tree hardy and healthy, a shy bearer; fruit medium to large,
oblong, purplish-red; flesh sweet; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Penobscot.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =1=:196. 1846. =2.= Elliott
_Fr. Book_ 428. 1854. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 222, 244. 1858.

Originated about 1840 with James McLaughlin of Bangor, Maine. Rejected
by the American Pomological Society in 1858. Tree productive; fruit
large, oval; suture distinct; cavity small; stem of medium length;
greenish-yellow with a red blush in the sun; bloom thin; flesh yellow,
sweet; flavor pleasant; stone long, pointed at both ends, clinging; early.

=Pennock.= _Prunus besseyi_ × Domestica? =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:18.
1898. =2.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:43. 1898.

Pennock’s Hybrid 2.

Pennock was raised in 1893 by C. E. Pennock of Fort Collins, Colorado,
from seed of _Prunus besseyi_ supposed to have been pollinated by
Arctic. Tree dwarfish, upright; leaves of medium size, ovate, coarsely
serrate, thickish, finely tomentose on either side; petiole short, stiff,
sometimes with one gland at the base of the blade; fruit small, roundish;
suture slight; deep blue; bloom heavy; flavor intermediate between the
plum and cherry; stone small, round and cherry-like.

=Peoly Early Blue.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 309. 1845.
=2.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 346. 1849.

From Massachusetts. Fruit medium in size, oblong; stem short; suture
obscure; dark blue; bloom light; flesh yellow; pleasant; fair quality;
semi-clinging; early.

=Perdrigon des Alpes.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 151. 1831.

The London Horticultural Society listed Perdrigon des Alpes and Perdrigon
Violet des Alpes as distinct varieties but there seems to be little
difference between them.

=Perdrigon of Cernay.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 69.
1699.

_Cernay Perdrigon_ 1.

Mentioned in the preceding reference as round or oblate, with a dry and
mealy flesh.

=Perdrigon Tardif.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 67. 1699. =2.=
_Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 151. 1831. =3.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:125. 1873.
=4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.

_Damas de Septembre_ 4 incor. _Königs Pflaume aus Paris_ 4. Königspflaume
von _Paris_ 3. Later Perdrigon 1. _Royale de Paris Tardive_ 4. _September
Damascene_ 4 incor. _Späte Herrn Pflaume_ 4. _Späte Königs Pflaume_
4. _Späte Königs Pflaume aus Paris_ 4. Später Perdrigon 4. _Später
Perdrigon_ 3.

Quintinye, in 1699, mentioned a Later Perdrigon which is probably this
variety. Duhamel confused this variety with the Impératrice but they are
distinct. In America this Perdrigon is unknown. Tree small; leaves small,
obovate; flowers very small; fruit small, roundish-ellipsoid; suture
distinct; skin thick, purplish-black; stem short; cavity shallow; flesh
yellowish, fine, firm, sweet; freestone; late.

=Pershore.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 375. 1866. =2.= Mas _Pom.
Gen._ =2=:111. 1873. =3.= _Garden_ =49=:225. 1896.

Pershore Yellow Egg 3.

Grown largely in the Pershore district, Worcester County, England.
Tree vigorous, productive; fruit medium, obovate; suture indistinct;
golden-yellow; flesh clear yellow, neither juicy nor sweet; quality fair;
stone small, clinging; fit only for culinary purposes; propagated by
suckers.

=Petite Quetsche Sucrée.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:181. 1873.
=2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437. 1889.

_Ananas Zwetsche_ 2. Kleine Zuckerzwetsche 2. _Kleine Zucker Zwetsche_ 1.

A German variety produced from seed of Violette Diaper. Fruit small,
oval; suture shallow; cavity small; stem slender; dark purple; bloom
thick; flesh yellow, fine-grained, juicy, sweet; freestone; mid-season.

=Phiolenartige Gelbe Zwetsche.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 442.
1889.

Mathieu found the name of this variety in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 288.
1884.

=Pilot.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 52. 1897. =2.= _Ibid._
=87=:15. 1901. =3.= _Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:31. 1904.

Originated with M. E. Hinckley at Marcus, Iowa, from seed of a wild plum
gathered on the Little Sioux River near Cherokee, Iowa; seed planted
in 1870. Tree open, spreading, drooping; fruit large, oblong-oval with
rounded apex; suture distinct; yellow mottled with light and dark red;
skin thick, tough; flesh firm, rich and sweet; good; stone long-oval,
pointed, margined; mid-season; cracks and rots in wet seasons.

=Pink Damson.= Insititia? =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 93. 1885.

Fruit small, pinkish-red; flesh light pink, soft; quality fair; very
early.

=Pioneer Prune.= Domestica. =1.= _Pioneer Nur. Cat._ 1900.

A variety grown for several years by the Pioneer Nursery Company, Salt
Lake City, Utah; discarded because of its close resemblance to the
Italian Prune.

=Piper.= Americana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 162. 1891. =2.= _Wis. Sta.
Bul._ =63=:52. 1897. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:287. 1900. =4.= _Wis. Sta.
Bul._ =87=:15, 16 fig. 4. 1901.

Piper’s Peach 1, 2, 3. _Piper’s Peach_ 4.

Found wild near Mankato, Blue Earth County, Minnesota, about 1887 by
J. S. Harris of Crescent, Minnesota. Tree vigorous, upright, hardy,
productive; fruit large, round, bright red; flesh orange-yellow,
sweet and rich; good; stone roundish, slightly margined, nearly free;
mid-season; mentioned in the catalog of the American Pomological Society
in 1899.

=Piram.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892.
=2.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:490, 491. 1894. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 197.
1901.

A seedling from Goliad County, Texas, originated by G. Onderdonk; named
after Piram Hall about 1875. Tree hardy, productive; fruit medium to
large, roundish; suture indistinct; light yellow; dots white; bloom
thin; skin thin and tender; flesh yellow, soft, sweet; fair to good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Pissardi.= Cerasifera. =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 191. 1881. =2.= _Gard. Mon._
=25=:367. 1883. =3.= _Rural N. Y._ =44=:479. 1885. =4.= _Gard. and For._
=1=:178. 1888. =5.= _Garden_ =55=:314. 1899. =6.= Bailey _Cyc. Hort._
1447. 1901.

_Prunus Cerasifera Atropurpurea_ 5. _Prunus Pissardi_ 5. _Prunus
Pissardii_ 3. Purple-leaved Plum 3. The Purple Myrobalan 5. Prunus
Pissardi 1, 2, 4.

See _Prunus cerasifera_, p. 000. Tree large; shoots purplish; foliage
while unfolding tinged with red, later becoming dark purple; fruit medium
in size; skin purplish, showing color in unripe stage, thin, tough;
suture obscure; flesh firm, juicy, moderately acid, inferior in quality;
clingstone.

=Plantz.= Domestica. =1.= _Cal. State Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 129, 130 fig. 1891.

Plantz’s Seedling 1.

A chance seedling found by W. A. Plantz of New Castle, California, about
1883. Tree thrifty, productive; fruit large, oval, tapering towards the
stem, reddish-purple; flesh yellow, sugary, rich, juicy and sweet; ripens
in California about three weeks before the Hungarian Prune.

=Plunk.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:44. 1897. =2.= Kerr _Cat._
9. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 160. 1901.

_Large Red Sweet_ 3. Large Red Sweet 1, 2.

Introduced by Charles Luedloff, Cologne, Minnesota. Tree a rapid grower
with good foliage; fruit large, round, dark red or purplish-red; flesh
reddish, not juicy, very sweet; good; clingstone; early.

=Pomaria.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 189. 1867.

A seedling of the Reine Claude from South Carolina, about 1867. Tree
productive; fruit medium in size, blue; bloom heavy; superior to its
parent in flavor.

=Pomona.= Americana × Hortulana mineri? =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:31.
1904.

Originated by E. D. Cowles, Vermilion, South Dakota; under test at the
South Dakota Experiment Station. Said to be “a natural cross of Forest
Garden and Miner.”

=Pond Purple.= Domestica. =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 209. 1835. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 309. 1845. =3.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 344 fig.
368. 1867.

_Pond’s Purple_ 2. Pond’s Seedling 2, 3.

Grown in the garden of Henry Hill, Boston; introduced by Samuel Pond of
Cambridge, Massachusetts. As it resembles the well-known Pond, it has
been confused with that variety. Young branches downy; fruit of medium
size, roundish; stem short; purple; flesh yellowish, rather dry, sweet,
mingled with acid; quality fair; freestone; early.

=Pontbriant.= Domestica. =1.= _Pom. France_ =7=:30 fig. 1871. =2.= _Cat.
Cong. Pom. France_ 344. 1887.

De Pontbriant 2. Prune De Pontbriant 1.

Raised by M. F. Morel, Lyons, France, from seed of the Purple Gage
planted in 1851. Tree of medium vigor; fruit large, round, a little more
truncated at the base than at the apex; cavity narrow, shallow; stem long
and stout; suture shallow and wide; reddish-purple, deeper on the sunny
side; bloom heavy; flesh pale yellow, medium fine grained, melting, very
juicy, with a very sweet and aromatic flavor; freestone.

=Pontford.= Domestica. =1.= Watkins _Cat._ 46. 1892?

Tree very productive; fruit of medium size, purple; mid-season; suitable
for market.

=Pontotoc.= Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =11=:286. 1898.

Mentioned in the catalog of F. T. Ramsey in 1898 as not yet well tested.

=Porsch Rote Zwetsche.= Species? Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 443. 1889.

=Potter.= Americana? =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 233. 1901.

Mentioned by Waugh who says it originated in Cherokee County, Iowa, and
is probably an Americana.

=Poupart.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 717. 1884.

Poupart’s 1.

Mr. Poupart, market gardener at Brompton, grew this variety, according to
Hogg, who says it is an enormous bearer and an excellent preserving plum.
Fruit medium, nearly round, resembling Purple Gage; light purple, dotted
and streaked with darker shades; flesh reddish, firm, sweet, with a Sloe
flavor; freestone.

=Powell Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Watkins _Cat._ 48. 1892?

Mentioned in the preceding reference as a new variety. Tree vigorous,
productive and large.

=Prairie Flower.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Col., O., Hort. Soc. Rpt._
=5=:10. 1890. =2.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 276. 1893. =3.= _Mich. Sta.
Bul._ =118=:54. 1895. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 175. 1901.

Prairie 3. _Prairie Flower_ 3.

Prairie Flower, a supposed seedling of Miner, originated in Adrian
County, Missouri; introduced by Stark Brothers about 1884. Fruit of
medium size, roundish-oval; suture a line; cavity shallow; skin thick,
red over yellow; bloom thin; flesh yellow; good; stone oval, slightly
flattened, clinging; season late. Mentioned in the last two issues of the
catalog of the American Pomological Society.

=Prairie Rose.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at the Experimental Farm at Indian Head, Northwest
Territory, Canada. Fruit of medium size, red; good; mid-season.

=Précoce Defresne.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 443. 1889.

=Précoce de Freudenberg.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 156, 361. 1895.

Freudenberger Früh Pflaume 1. _Freudenberger Früh Pflaume_ 2. _Précoce de
Freudenberg_ 1.

This variety is of German origin. Fruit of medium size, oval,
reddish-brown; flesh yellow, firm; good; early.

=Précoce de Lucas.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 2d App. 156.
1876. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889. =3.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand.
Obst._ 474. 1894.

Lucas Frühzwetsche 2, 3. _Précoce de Lucas_ 2. _Quetsche Précoce de
Lucas_ 2.

Of foreign origin; tree vigorous, an early and abundant bearer; fruit
large, oval; stem long, slender; dark blue; bloom heavy; flesh greenish,
juicy, sweet; freestone; mid-season.

=Précoce de Reutlinger.= Domestica. _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 433. 1905.

Précoce de Reutlinger Prune 1.

Tested at the Experimental Farm at Agassiz, British Columbia. Fruit below
medium size, oval; stem short; cavity small; suture well defined and one
side enlarged; deep purple; flesh yellowish, tender, sweet, juicy, rich;
stone small, free; mid-season.

=Premium.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:41. 1892. =2.= _Colo.
Sta. Bul._ =50=:43. 1898. Peffer’s Premium 1, 2.

Introduced by George P. Peffer of Pewaukee, Wisconsin. Tree vigorous with
an open top, productive; leaves of medium size, broad-ovate; fruit medium
in size, round or inclining to oblate; cavity very shallow; stem medium;
suture nearly obsolete; deep red over orange-yellow; dots numerous,
small; bloom thin; flesh yellow, firm; fair to good; stone circular,
smooth, clinging; mid-season.

=Preserver.= Triflora × Angustifolia varians. 1. _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:18.
1898. 2. Kerr _Cat._ 11. 1900.

A supposed cross between Kelsey and Early Red; from D. H. Watson,
Brenham, Texas; introduced by William A. Yates in 1897. Tree vigorous,
compact; fruit of medium size, roundish, dark red; flesh red, firm;
mid-season.

=President.= Americana. 1. Meneray _Cat._ The President 1.

A seedling of Harrison grown by H. A. Terry, and introduced by F. W.
Meneray, Council Bluffs, Iowa. Tree productive; fruit large, yellow,
covered with red; flesh yellow, sweet, rich, firm; semi-clinging.

=President.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. World_ =12=:123. 1895. =2.= _Garden_
=58=:294. 1900. =3.= _Ibid._ =64=:262. 1903.

Raised by Thomas Rivers of Sawbridgeworth, England; first fruited in 1894
and introduced in 1901 by the originator. Tree compact, productive; fruit
large, oval, deep purple almost black; bloom heavy; flesh with a sweet,
rich flavor; freestone; late. Recommended for culinary and market use.

=President.= Triflora × Simonii. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:226. 1899.

Grown by Luther Burbank as a seedling of Wickson; named by Waugh in 1899.
Fruit large, heart-shaped; cavity deep, rounded; stem short, very stout;
suture shallow; apex pointed; dark, fire-red; dots many, minute; bloom
thin; skin thin; flesh firm, meaty, yellow; flavor peculiar, a trifle
like musk-melon; quality poor; stone large, oval, pointed, flattened,
semi-clinging.

=President Courcelles.= Domestica. =1.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 361. 1895.
=2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 401. 1898. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd
Ser. =3=:55. 1900.

President Courcelle 3.

Tested at the Experimental Farm at Agassiz, British Columbia. Tree
vigorous; fruit of medium size, globular or sometimes heart-shaped;
suture shallow; purple; flesh pale yellow or greenish, juicy, sweet,
pleasant; mid-season.

=Presley.= Hortulana mineri × Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=12=:227. 1899.

From A. L. Bruce, Basin Springs, Texas. Waugh says its parentage is
probably Miner by Wayland. Fruit of medium size, inclined to oval; cavity
shallow; bright red; dots numerous, indistinct; flesh yellow; good; stone
small, round, flattened, clinging.

=Price.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

Prof. Price 1.

A seedling grown by H. A. Terry; introduced by F. W. Meneray, Council
Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit large, oblong, yellow, tinged with red; good;
clingstone.

=Pride of Waterloo.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 3rd App. 182
fig. 1881. =2.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =44=:92. 1899.

_Pride of Waterloo?_ 2.

Raised by A. H. Doles, Waterloo, New York, from seed of Smith Orleans;
distinct from Pond with which it is sometimes confused. Tree upright,
vigorous, very productive; branches smooth, reddish-brown; fruit large,
oval, narrowing towards the stem; suture indistinct; cavity large;
stem medium in length and thickness; reddish-purple; bloom thin; flesh
deep yellow, coarse, juicy, sweet, sprightly, not rich; stone slightly
adherent; mid-season.

=Primate.= Domestica. =1.= Rivers _Cat._ 35. 1898-9. =2.= Thompson _Gard.
Ass’t_ =4=:159. 1901. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 433. 1905.

A seedling first fruited by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, in
1890, and introduced by him in 1897. Fruit large, round; stem short, set
in a medium cavity; suture distinct; sides often unequal; purplish-red;
dots numerous, small, golden; bloom thin; flesh yellowish, juicy, sweet;
good; stone small, free; ripens late and hangs well after maturing.

=Prince.= Domestica. =1.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1529. 1688.

Ray mentions a variety by this name. It may be the same as
Gloucestershire Violet.

=Prince Early Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:87. 1832.

_Prince’s Early Purple_ 1.

A seedling raised by William Prince. Fruit of medium size, ovate, dark
purple, pleasant; freestone; early.

=Prince Orange Egg.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 392. 1857.
=2.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:187. 1873.

Oeuf Orange De Prince 2. _Prince’s Orange Egg_ 2.

Grown by William Prince. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large,
globular; cavity medium; stem short, stout; reddish-purple; dots
brownish-yellow; bloom thick; flesh greenish-yellow, a little coarse,
juicy, sweet and sprightly, not rich; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Prince Orange Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 405. 1857.

Noted only by Downing, who describes it as follows: “Fruit medium,
roundish-oval; suture moderate; skin yellow; stalk long, set in an open
cavity; flesh light yellow, coarse, juicy, pleasant, but not rich;
adheres to the stone; first of September.”

=Prince Primordian.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 25. 1828. =2.=
Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:79. 1832.

Prince’s Blue Primordian 1. _Prince’s Blue Primordian_ 2.

A seedling of White Primordian, grown by William Prince. A very early
variety, of about the same size as its parent, oval in shape, blue; flesh
pleasantly flavored.

=Pringle.= Insititia? =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 503, Pl. 63. 1905.

Pringle is a Damson-like variety originating as a sprout from the stock
of a Lombard tree in the orchard of A. C. Pringle, Mears, Michigan;
introduced by E. Hawley & Sons of Hart, Michigan, about 1896.

=Pringle Blue.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:612. 1893.

Received by the New York Experiment Station in 1890 from L. M.
Macomber, North Ferrisburg, Vermont. Tree very productive; fruit large,
irregular-oval; cavity medium; suture shallow; skin thin, tender;
purplish-black; bloom thick; dots small, numerous; flesh pale yellow,
dry, firm; flavor flat; fair; stone semi-clinging; mid-season; of no
value.

=Pringle Purple.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =9=:347. 1890.

Received by the New York Experiment Station in 1890 from L. M. Macomber,
North Ferrisburg, Vermont. Tree productive; fruit of medium size,
roundish, compressed; cavity small; suture a line; skin thin, tender;
reddish-purple, unattractive; bloom thinnish; dots small, numerous; flesh
light yellow, moderately juicy, slightly fibrous, firm, mild; good; stone
nearly free; mid-season; of no value.

=Procureur.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:63. 1873.

_Platte Hellrothe Königspflaume_ 1.

Probably of French origin. Tree vigorous, early, productive; fruit large,
round, flattened at the ends; suture well defined; dull yellow, almost
covered with bright purple; bloom thin; flesh pale yellow, juicy, sweet,
aromatic; quality fair; stone small, free; mid-season.

=Profuse.= Species? Letter from Kerr.

Originated by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska.

=Prof. Wittmack.= Insititia? × Domestica? =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =3=:364.
1888.

The parentage of this variety is not definitely known but it is thought
to be a Mirabelle crossed with Italian Prune; grown by Herr Ulhorn,
Grevenbroich, Lower Rhenish Prussia. A sweet plum of the prune type;
freestone; good for either dessert or drying.

=Pruneau.= Species? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 117. 1875.

Reported from Quebec, Canada, in 1875; commonly grown from suckers.

=Prune d’Agen Double.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 420.
1889.

=Prune d’Amour.= Domestica. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 421. 1889.

=Prune d’Automne.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:9. 1873.

_Herbstpflaume_ 1.

Raised by Dr. Dorell of Kuttenberg, Bohemia. Tree of capricious growth;
fruit small, globular; suture indistinct; purplish-black; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy; good; freestone; late.

=Prune de Laghouat.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 438.
1889.

=Prune d’Ente Impériale.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
429. 1889.

=Prune de Rudolphe.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:189. 1873.

_Rudolph’s Pflaume_ 1.

Liegel received this variety in 1842 from Count Bressler of Hungary.
Origin uncertain. Tree vigorous, an early and prolific bearer; fruit
medium in size, obovate; suture indistinct; golden-yellow, dotted with
red; flesh clear yellow, sweet, juicy; good; stone obovate, clinging;
mid-season.

=Prune de Seigneur.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.

Prune de Prince.

=Prune Tardive.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 2nd App. 157.
1876.

Tree vigorous, very productive; fruit below medium size, oval; stem
long, slender, set in a small cavity; black; bloom thick; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet; freestone; very late.

=Pseudo Mirabelle.= Insititia. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152.
1831.

=Purple Favorite.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 307. fig.
126. 1845. =2.= _N. Y. Agr. Soc. Rpt._ 293 fig. 1848. =3.= _Mag. Hort._
=16=:455, 456 fig. 27. 1850. =4.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:83, fig. 42.
1866-73.

Favorite Pourpre 4. _Purple Favourite_ 4.

The original tree of Purple Favorite was planted at Newburgh, New York,
by the father of A. J. Downing; from whence it came is not known. Fruit
of medium size, roundish; cavity slight; suture lacking; brownish-purple;
bloom thin; flesh pale yellow, tender, juicy, sweet; quality very good;
stone small, round, free; mid-season. Listed in the American Pomological
Society catalog since 1852.

=Purple Flesh.= Triflora. =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 1909.

A purple-fleshed variety introduced by Stark Brothers and recommended by
them as being hardy.

=Purple-leaved Hybrid.= Triflora × Cerasifera. =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 16
fig. 1893.

_K. P. 193_ 1.

A seedling of Kelsey pollinated by Pissardi; from Luther Burbank, Santa
Rosa, California. Resembles the male parent in wood, bark, leaves,
flowers and fruit; very ornamental on account of its large purple leaves.
Fruit larger than Pissardi, dark purple with many white dots; bloom thin;
flesh reddish-purple throughout, firm, subacid; good; ripens several
weeks before Kelsey.

=Purple Panhandle.= Angustifolia watsoni. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.=
_Ibid._ 21. 1897. =3.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 222, 223. 1898. =4.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 233. 1901.

Introduced from the Panhandle of Texas by F. T. Ramsey, Austin, Texas.
Tree small, rapid in growth; fruit below medium in size, round-oblong,
inclining to conic, purplish-red; quality poor; clingstone; early to
mid-season.

=Purple Yosemite.= Species? =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:176. 1878. =2.=
_Penin. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 65. 1891. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:32.
1903.

Yosemite 1. Yosemite Purple 3.

Introduced by W. S. Carpenter of Rye, New York, who secured it from
the “Rocky Mountains.” Fruit large, roundish; cavity shallow; suture a
line; skin thick, deep, dull red; dots yellow, distinct; bloom medium
thick; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; quality fair; stone oval, flattened,
clinging; mid-season.

=Puymirol d’Ente.= Domestica. =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 356. 1891.

Originated at Puymirol in the southwest of France; introduced into
California; a type of the Agen. Tree productive; fruit large, inclined to
oblong; flesh very sweet; ripens a little earlier than Agen.

=Quaker.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 308. 1884. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 160. 1901.

Found in the wild by Joseph Bundy of Springville, Linn County, Iowa;
introduced about 1862 by H. C. Raymond, Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit
large, roundish; cavity shallow; suture a line; stem long; skin thick,
dark red; bloom thick; dots many; flesh yellow, sweet, pleasant; good;
stone large, oblique-oval, flattened, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Quality.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:24, 55. 1897. =2.= _Ia.
Sta. Bul._ =46=:287. 1900. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:15. 1907.

_Gaylord Quality_ 2.

Of unknown origin; top-grafted about 1880 by Edson Gaylord of Nora
Springs, Iowa, who afterwards distributed the variety. Fruit below medium
in size, round, dull purplish-red; dots white; bloom heavy; flesh soft;
quality fair; stone turgid; mid-season.

=Quebec.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:38. 1903.

=Queen.= Americana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:31. 1903.

_Golden Queen_ 1.

From H. A. Terry coming from unknown parents and bearing its first crop
in 1897. Tree upright; fruit large, round, bright golden-yellow; very
good; said to be excellent for canning or dessert.

=Queen May.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:36. 1903.

First grown by Thomas Clark, Chateaugay, Quebec. Tree strong and
productive; fruit large, round; cavity narrow; suture indistinct;
greenish-yellow; bloom thin; dots indistinct; flesh greenish-yellow,
juicy, firm, sweet, rich; very good; clingstone.

=Queen Mother.= Domestica? =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 577, 578.
1629. =2.= Rea _Flora_ 207. 1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1529. 1688.
=4.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 69, 70. 1699. =5.= Langley _Pomona_ 94, Pl.
XXIV fig. 3. 1729. =6.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:87. 1832. =7.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 310. 1845. =8.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 291.
1846. =9.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:41. 1866-73. =10.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 719.
1884. =11.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437, 448. 1889. =12.= _Guide Prat._ 160,
361. 1895.

_Cherry_ of some ?1, ?3. _Coeur de Pigeon_ 11. Damaske Violet ?1. _Damas
Violet_ 7, 11, 12. Königin Mutter 11. _Moschatelle_ of some 3. Muscadine
?1. Petit Damas Rouge 9, 12. _Petit Damas Rouge_ 6, 11. _Pigeon’s Heart_
7, 10, 11, 12. Pigeons Heart 4. _Queene Mother_ of some 1. _Queen Mother_
9, 11, 12. _Red Queen Mother_ 7, 11. _Rotes Taubenherz_ 11. Rotes
Taubenherz 11. _Small Red Damask_ 6. Small Red Damson 6.

Queen Mother and Damas Violet have been confused for nearly three
centuries, yet they are distinct, as our descriptions show. Hogg thought
the Queen Mother mentioned by Ray and pictured as a cordate-shaped fruit
by Parkinson, was the Myrobalan. Tree medium in size, compact, spherical;
fruit small, nearly round; suture slightly pronounced, halves equal;
cavity nearly lacking; stem medium in length; skin red to violet on the
sunny side; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, sweet; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Queen of Arkansas.= Species? Mentioned in _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:490.
1894.

=Quetsche à feuille argentee.= Species? =1.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 362. 1895.

_Frühzwetsche mit Silberblatt_ 1. _Silberblattrige Zwetsche_ 1.

A variety from Hungary having silvery-colored leaves; said to ripen two
weeks before the German Prune.

=Quetsche Aplatie.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:23. 1873. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 423. 1889.

Breitgedrückte Zwetsche 2. Breitgedrückte Kaiser Zwetsche 2.
_Breitgedrückte Zwetsche_ 1. _Donauers Zusammen Gedrückte Zwetsche_ 1, 2.
_Plattrunde Zwetsche_ 1, 2. _Quetsche Aplatie_ 2.

Found in a garden by M. Donauer of Saxe-Cobourg, Gotha. Fruit of medium
size, obovate, compressed; suture broad, shallow; dark purple; bloom
thick; flesh green, sweet, aromatic; good; stone rough, free; mid-season.

=Quetsche Buhl-Eltershofen.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:159.
1866-73.

A seedling raised by M. Liegel of Germany and named in honor of M.
Buhl-Eltershofen. Fruit above medium size, long-ovate; suture distinct;
deep purple; bloom light; flesh greenish-white, juicy; quality good;
stone large.

=Quetsche Datte des Allemands.= Domestica. =1.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 362.
1895.

Fruit large, irregular-oval, darker color than German Prune; flesh
yellow, sweet; good; late.

=Quetsche de Dobrowitz.= Species? =1.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 362. 1895.

_Dobrowitzer Frühzwetsche_ 1. _Quetsche de Doubrawie_ 1.

A Hungarian variety maturing about fifteen days earlier than German Prune.

=Quetsche de Kreuter.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 438. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 363. 1895.

Kreuter’s Zwetsche 1. _Kreuters Zwetsche_ 2. _Quetsche de Kreuter_ 1.

A variety of little merit.

=Quetsche de Millot.= Domestica. =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 496. 1908.

Mentioned by Baltet as a better variety than the German Prune.

=Quetsche De Ransleben.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:153. 1873.

_Ranslebens Pflaume_ 1. _Ranslebens Zwetsche_ 1.

A seedling of Reine Claude raised by M. Ransleben of Berlin, Germany.
Tree vigorous, an early and abundant bearer; fruit small, long-oval;
suture indistinct; purplish-brown; thick bloom; flesh green, juicy; stone
rough, free.

=Quetsche de Transylvanie.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 362. 1895.

_Quetsche de Transilvanie_ 2. Siebenburger Zwetsche 1. _Siebenburger
Zwetsche_ 2.

Mentioned as “of very doubtful value.”

=Quetsche Dr. Létricourt.= Domestica. =1.= _Le Bon Jard._ Preface XLVII.
1882. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 455. 1889. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 161, 362.
1895.

_De Pologne_ 3. _Impériale Blanche?_ 2, 3. _Prune de Pologne_ 2.
_Quetsche de Létricourt_ 2. Quetsche de Létricourt 3. _Quetsche Jaune_ 2,
3. Zwetsche Von Létricourt 2.

Fruit elliptical, elongated at both ends; skin yellow, sometimes washed
red; flesh yellowish, very juicy, sweet.

=Quetsche Freestone.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =205=:37. 1903.
=2.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =27=:15. 1904.

Probably a seedling of German Prune imported by the United States
Department of Agriculture in 1894. Fruit small, oval; suture distinct;
dark blue; flesh yellow, juicy, tart; late; inferior to German Prune.

=Quetsche Hâtive.= Domestica. =1.= Baltet _Cult. Fr._ 494. 1908.

A medium sized, long-oval, dark purple prune; good; early.

=Quetsche Jaune Précoce.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:99, fig.
50. 1866-73. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889.

_Gelbe Frühzwetsche_ 1. Gelbe Frühzwetsche 2. _Quetsche Jaune Précoce_ 2.

Fruit of medium size, oval, yellow; flesh yellow, sprightly, tender,
juicy; said to make good prunes; early.

=Quetsche Longue Précoce.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 444. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 362. 1895.

A variety of little merit.

=Quetsche Maraichère.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:107. 1873.
=2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 362. 1895.

_Die Gartenzwetsche_ 3. Gartenpflaume 2, 3. _Garten Pflaume_ 1. _Garten
Zwetsche_ 1,2. _Maraichère_ 3. _Prune Maraichère_ 1, 2. _Quetsche
Maraichère_ 2.

From M. M. Bauman & Sons, Bollwiller, Germany. Tree of medium vigor, an
early and abundant bearer; fruit medium, ellipsoidal; suture indistinct;
skin dark purple; bloom thin; flesh yellow, sweet, aromatic; freestone;
excellent for drying.

=Quetsche Pointue.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:51. 1873. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.

_Provinz Zwetsche_ 2. _Quetsche de Province_ 1. _Spitszwetsche_ 1.
Spitzzwetsche 2.

Liegel received this variety in 1816 from M. Grob of Eichelstadt,
Bavaria, under the name of Quetsche de Province. Tree vigorous, an early
and productive bearer; fruit large, long-ovate, obtuse at the stem end,
acute-pointed at the apex; suture broad, deep; deep purple; bloom thick;
flesh yellowish, sweet; good for culinary purposes; stone long, narrow,
clinging.

=Quetsche Précoce de Buhlerthal.= Domestica? =1.= _Guide Prat._ 164, 363.
1895.

_Frühzwetsche von Buhlerthal_ 1. _Zwetsche Frühe Von Buhlerthal_ 1.

A new variety from Germany maturing very early.

=Quetsche Précoce De Frauendorf.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:97.
1873.

_Frauendorfer Frühe Zwetsche_ 1.

Introduced by Eugene Furst, Frauendorf, Bavaria; distinguished from the
German Prune by its larger size, earlier maturity and superior quality.

=Quetsche Précoce Liegel.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:53. 1873.
=2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

_Liegels Frühzwetsche_ 1. Liegels Frühzwetsche 2. _Quetsche Hâtive de
Liegel_ 2. _Quetsche Précoce de Liegel_ 2.

Found growing among German Prune trees by M. Liegel; differs from the
German Prune only in that its fruit matures a few days earlier.

=Quetsche Précoce De Schamal.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:5.
1873.

_Schamals Frühzwetsche_ 1.

Originated by M. Schamal of Jungbunzlau, Bohemia. Fruit small, obovate;
suture narrow, shallow; dark purple; flesh yellow, sweet, perfumed; good;
freestone.

=Quetsche Ronde.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:62. 1771.

A strain of the German Prune.

=Quetsche Verte D’Italie.= Domestica. =1.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:34,
Tab. 182 fig. 2. 1796. =2.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831. =3.= Mas.
_Le Verger_ =6=:97. 1866-73. =4.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 363. 1895.

Die lange, grüne und grosses welsche Pflaume? 1. _Grüne Eierpflaume_
4. _Grüne Zwetsche_ 4. _Italienische Grüne Zwetsche_ 3, 4. _Verdage
D’Italie_ 3, 4. _Vertage d’Italie tres-grosse_ 1.

A European plum of unknown origin. Tree large; fruit large, ellipsoidal;
suture very shallow; skin tender, not adherent, greenish-yellow, specked
with red; stem short; flesh greenish-yellow, melting, juicy, aromatic; of
first quality; clingstone; mid-season.

=Quitique.= Species? Letter from F. T. Ramsey.

Selected from the wild near Quitique, Texas.

=Rachel.= Hortulana mineri. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:58, 86. 1892.
=2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 175. 1901. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:280. 1904.

Fruit small, roundish; suture a line; cavity shallow; bright red;
dots yellow, conspicuous; blue; flesh yellow, melting; quality fair;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Rademakers.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 444. 1889. =2.= _Can.
Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:53. 1900.

_Brugnon de Neerveteren_ 1. Rademaker’s Prune 1.

Under test at the British Columbia Experimental Station.

=Ragland.= Triflora × Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:19.
1898. =2.= Kerr _Cat._ 11. 1900. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 223. 1901.

A hybrid grown by D. H. Watson, Brenham, Texas, supposedly from seed
of Kelsey pollinated by Yellow Transparent; introduced by W. A. Yates
in 1897. Fruit of medium size, oblate; cavity broad, rounded; suture
lacking; bright clear yellow; dots yellow; bloom white; flesh yellow,
firm, juicy, sweet, rich; very good; stone small, clinging; early.

=Raisin.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831. =2.= _Mag.
Hort._ =9=:165. 1843.

An old European variety now obsolete. Fruit small, round, greenish; of
medium quality; clingstone.

=Ramsey Last.= Munsoniana. Letter from Kerr.

Originated with F. T. Ramsey, Austin, Texas. Fruit small; good; late for
its group.

=Ranette.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 444. 1889. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 160, 363. 1895.

Fruit large, roundish-oval, reddish-brown; flesh yellow, juicy, good;
freestone; late.

=Rangheri.= Insititia. =1.= Koch _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 571. 1876. =2.=
Lange _Allgem. Garten_ =2=:420. 1879. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:155.
1866-73. =4.= Lauche _Deut. Pom._ Pl. IV. 14. 1882. =5.= Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 444. 1889. =6.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 465. 1900.

Mirabelle de Rangheri 3. _Mirabelle Hâtive de Rangheri_ 5. _Mirabelle
Rangheri_ 5. _Mirabelle de Rangheri_ 5. Mirabelle Rangheris 2.
_Rangheri’s Aprikosen Pflaume_ 5. _Rangheri’s Frühe Gelbe Mirabelle_
4, 5. _Rangheri’s Frühe Mirabelle_ 5. _Rangheri’s Gelbe Mirabelle_ 5.
Rangheris Mirabelle 1. _Rangheris Mirabelle_ 3. Rangheri’s Mirabelle 4,
5, 6.

Raised by Liegel from the stone of the Abricotée de Braunau plum, and
dedicated by him to M. Henri Rangheri, a merchant at Prague, Bohemia.
Tree of medium vigor; fruit medium, roundish-oval; suture indistinct;
cavity shallow; skin golden-yellow with red spots on the sunny side;
flesh yellow, juicy, tender, sweet, aromatic; of first quality;
freestone; mid-season; valuable for table and household purposes.

=Rareripe.= Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =26=:14. 1891. =2.=
_Ibid._ =93=:32. 1905.

_Rare Ripe_ 1.

Tree hardy and productive; fruit small, dark red; flesh sweet;
clingstone; inferior to Harrison but better than De Soto; mid-season.

=Ray.= Hortulana mineri × Munsoniana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:227.
1899.

A supposed cross between Miner and Wild Goose from A. L. Bruce of Basin
Springs, Texas. Fruit small to medium, oval to roundish; cavity medium
deep; suture faint; dark red; flesh yellow; clingstone.

=Raymond.= Species? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892.

Mentioned by Bailey in 1892 in an unclassified list of plums.

=Raynes.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:36. 1903. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 66. 1905.

_Dunlop 53_ 1.

Disseminated by W. W. Dunlop, Outremont, Quebec. Fruit of the prune type,
above medium size, oval; suture distinct; dark reddish-purple; bloom
moderate; flesh yellowish-green, firm, sweet; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Reagan.= Hortulana × Americana. =1.= Tex. _Cat._ 1907.

An offspring of Wayland crossed with an Americana; introduced by the
Texas Nursery Company in 1907. Fruit large, red, rich; good; very late.

=Reagles Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Cultivator =6=:269. 1858. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 941. 1869. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 720. 1884.

Reagles’ Gage 1, 2.

A seedling of Washington raised by C. Reagles, Schenectady, New York.
Tree vigorous, upright; fruit of medium size, spherical; suture broad,
shallow; greenish-yellow, splashed with darker green; bloom light; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet, vinous; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Rebecca.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894-1900.

Fruit above medium in size, roundish-oblong, purplish-red; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Reche.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894-1901.

Tree strong and productive; fruit large for the species, globular; dull
purplish-red; clingstone.

=Red Cloud.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897-1900.

Fruit small, roundish, mottled red; inferior; clingstone.

=Red Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Gard. Cal._ 588. 1806. =2.= _N. Y. Agr.
Soc. Rpt._ 292 fig. 1848. 3. Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 251. 1857. =4.= Mathieu
_Nom. Pom._ 443. 1889. =5.= _Guide Prat._ 157, 162, 364. 1895.

_Auserlesene Rote Reine-Claude_ 4. _Auserlesene rothe Reineclaude_
5. _Lombard_ 3 incor. _Prince’s Red Gage_ 2, 4, 5. Prince’s Rote
Reine-Claude 4. _Prinzens rothe Reineclaude_ 5. _Red Gage_ 4, 5.
Reine-Claude Rouge Americaine 5. Reine-Claude rouge de Prince 5.
_Reine-Claude Rouge de Prince_ 4.

Red Gage was grown from a seed of Reine Claude in 1790 by William Prince,
Flushing, Long Island, New York. Fruit of medium size, oval; suture
lacking; stem short; dark red in the sun ranging to pale red in the
shade; flesh greenish, tender, juicy, sweet; very good; stone small,
free; mid-season.

=Red Gage of Dutchess County.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._
942. 1869.

Originated in Dutchess County, New York. Fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval, slightly compressed; suture distinct; cavity large; color
yellow overlaid with a light reddish-purple; dots numerous; flesh yellow,
juicy; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Red Glass.= Hortulana mineri × Domestica. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=14=:272. 1901. =2.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =114=:143. 1910.

Red Glass originated with Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska, as a
seedling of Miner pollinated by Quackenboss. Fruit large, oval, red;
bloom thick; flesh firm, meaty, tender, sweet; good; mid-season.

=Red Glass Junior.= (Hortulana mineri × Domestica) × Domestica. =1.= _Am.
Br. Assoc. Rpt._ =2=:185. 1906.

A hybrid from Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska, from seed of Red
Glass crossed with Quackenboss. The variety is hardy and gives promise of
value in Nebraska.

=Red Horse.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897.

Fruit of medium size, roundish-oblong, dull red; inferior; clingstone.

=Redick.= Americana. Mentioned in _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 228. 1909.

=Red Magdalene.= Domestica. Mentioned in Watkins _Cat._ 1892.

=Red May.= Triflora × Munsoniana. =1.= Sherman _Cat._ 1898. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 224, 1901.

A seedling of Abundance fertilized by Wild Goose from A. L. Bruce[231],
Texas; introduced by J. S. Kerr, Sherman, Texas, in 1898. Fruit of
medium size, oblong, pointed, deep red; similar to Red June but ten days
earlier.

=Red October.= Species? =1.= _Tex. Dept. Agr. Bul._ =12=:103. 1910.

A variety reported as worthless in Hale County, Texas.

=Red Panhandle.= Angustifolia watsoni. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.=
_Ibid_. 1897. =3.= Bailey _Ev. of Nat. Fr._ 222, 223. 1898. =4.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 233. 1901.

Of the same origin as Purple Panhandle. Tree irregular and straggling
in habit, very productive; fruit small to medium, irregular-oval or
oblong, dull dark red with scattering dots; bloom thick; skin tough;
flesh reddish-yellow; very poor; stone large, roundish-oval, slightly
flattened, clinging; early.

=Red Pear.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 208. 1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1528. 1688.

Mentioned as poor in quality. May be identical with the Pear Plum.

=Red Peascod.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 577. 1629. =2.=
Rea _Flora_ 208. 1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1529. 1688.

Red Pescod 1.

Cultivated in the Seventeenth Century. Fruit elongated, watery; poor in
quality; very late.

=Red Perdrigon.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:86. 1768.
=2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:27, Tab. 172 fig. 2. 1796. =3.= Willich
_Dom. Enc._ =4=:299. 1803. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 312. 1845. =5.=
Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 445. 1881. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448.
1889.

Die rothe Rebhuhnpflaume 2. Perdrigon rouge 1. _Perdrigon rouge_ 2, 4,
6. _Podiebrader Pflaume_ 6. _Red Perdrigon_ 6. Roter Perdrigon 6. Rother
Perdrigon 5.

Red Perdrigon was first described by Duhamel; probably introduced into
America during the latter part of the Eighteenth Century. Tree very
productive; fruit small, oval; cavity small; suture lacking; dark red;
dots small; bloom heavy; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, sweet, aromatic;
freestone; late mid-season.

=Red Primordian.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 575. 1629. =2.=
Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 286, 382. 1846. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees
Am._ 943. 1869. =4.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:149, fig. 75. 1873.

Early Red Primordian 2. _Red Primordian_ 2, 4. Rouge Hâtive 4.

Common in Europe nearly three centuries ago. Fruit of medium size,
pear-shaped, reddish, pleasant; good; early. Downing and Mas described a
variety under this name supposed to have originated with William Prince.
It is very similar to the older variety of which it may be a seedling.

=Red Prune.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =8=:536. 1853.

_Bottle Plum_ =1.=

From Pennsylvania. Fruit long-pyriform, with a slender neck; suture
distinct; pale red; good; it closely resembles the Red Date.

=Red Skin.= Munsoniana. Letter from Kerr.

Originated by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska.

=Red Violet.= =1.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1528. 1688.

Mentioned by Ray in the preceding reference together with blue and amber
sorts but without description.

=Red Virginal.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831. =2.=
Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:74. 1832. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 429. 1854. =4.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 950. 1869. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448. 1889.

Rote Jungfernpflaume 5. _Virgin_ 2. Virgin 3, 4. _Virginal à Fruit Blanc_
4 incor. _Virginal à gros Fruit blanc_ 4 incor. Virginal Blanc 4 incor.
_Virginale_ 3. _Virginale à Fruit Rouge_ 5. _Virginale Blanc_ 4 incor.
_Virginale Rouge_ 2, 5. _Virginal Rouge_ 1. _White Virginale_ 4 incor.

Fruit of medium size, roundish, reddish-purple; bloom thick; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy; good; semi-free.

=Red Winter.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887.

_Krasnaya osimaya_ 1.

Imported by the Iowa Agricultural College.

=Reed.= Hortulana. =1.= _N. J. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 12. 1882. =2.= _Vt. Sta.
An. Rpt._ =11=:286 fig. 1898.

Originated with P. H. Reed of Hightstown, New Jersey, from pits brought
from Illinois; introduced by Charles Black of the same place. Tree
vigorous; leaves large, dark green; fruit small, round; suture a faint
line; skin thick; dark red; dots yellow; flesh yellow, meaty; quality
fair; stone turgid, semi-clinging; late.

=Reel.= Americana mollis. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1898. =2.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Grown by H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa; a seedling of Van Buren; first
fruited in 1896. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, pale yellow with
a red cheek; good.

=Regina.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory,
Canada. Fruit small, red; skin thick; good.

=Reine-Claude Abricotine.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 445. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 156, 363. 1895.

Fruit small, whitish; flesh light yellow, sweet; good; early.

=Reine Claude d’Écully.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 445. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 153, 364. 1895.

Tree vigorous; fruit large, round; cavity small; suture distinct;
greenish-yellow; bloom thin; flesh firm, sweet, juicy; good; freestone;
mid-season.

=Reine Claude d’Oberdieck.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
446. 1889.

=Reine Claude de Brignais.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 452.
1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 364. 1895.

_Reine-Claude de Brignais_ 1. Violette Reine-Claude Von Brignais 1.

Said to be superior to Reine Claude.

=Reine Claude de l’Echoisier.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd
Ser. =3=:55. 1900.

Of French origin. Not hardy in Canada.

=Reine Claude de Mezel.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser.
=3=:55. 1900.

Of French origin. Tree vigorous; fruit medium, globular; suture shallow;
skin greenish-yellow; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; early.

=Reine Claude de Razaimbaut.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 446.
1889. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:55. 1900.

_Reine-Claude de Razaimbaut_ 1. Reine-Claude de Razimbaud 1.
_Reine-Claude Précoce de Razimbaud_ 1.

Imported from France by the Canadian Experimental Farm at Agassiz,
British Columbia. Tree vigorous; fruit small, roundish; skin green; flesh
green, juicy, sweet; mid-season.

=Reine Claude de Saint-Avertin.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 446.
1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 155, 364. 1895.

Fruit rather large, roundish, greenish-yellow blushed with red; flesh
yellow, juicy, sweet, aromatic; very good; late.

=Reine Claude de Vandenbrok.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
446. 1889.

=Reine Claude de Wazon.= Domestica. =1.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 364. 1895.
=2.= Baltet _Cult. Fr_. 491. 1908.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit nearly large, obovate, greenish-yellow,
washed with red; flesh juicy, sweet and acidulated; very good; mid-season.

=Reine Claude Descarde.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 445. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 364. 1895.

An inferior variety of the Reine Claude type.

=Reine Claude Hamaitre.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 446. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 364. 1895.

A variety of the Reine Claude type of doubtful value.

=Reine Claude Monstrueuse de Mezel.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu
_Nom. Pom._ 446. 1889.

=Reine Claude Sagot.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser.
=3=:56. 1900.

Probably of French origin; as tested in Canada, tree weak; foliage small,
scanty; fruit medium in size, globular; stem one-half inch long; cavity
small; suture distinct; skin whitish-yellow; flesh yellowish, rather dry,
tender, fine-grained, very sweet; stone small, roundish, free; mid-season.

=Reine Claude Von Bollwiller.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 445. 1889.

=Reine des Mirabelles.= Insititia × Domestica. =1.= _Guide Prat._ 164,
364. 1895. =2.= _Rev. Hort._ 476. 1901.

_Königin der Mirabellen_ 1.

Produced by crossing the Mirabelle and the Reine Claude. Tree vigorous
and productive; fruit large, yellow, dotted with red on the sunny side,
juicy; good; mid-season.

=Reine Victoria.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 380. 1866.

According to Hogg this is a French variety distinct from Victoria. Fruit
roundish-oval, reddish-purple; flesh juicy, rich, agreeable, freestone;
similar to Kirke but two or three weeks later.

=Reisenzwetsche.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889.

_Reine-Claude Geante_ 1.

Mathieu gives reference to _Monatsschrift für Pomologie_ 281. 1858.

=Reizenstein Yellow Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 943.
1869. =2.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:119. 1866-73. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
446. 1889. =4.= _Guide Prat._ 161, 362. 1895.

_De Reizeinstein_ 4. _Jaune de Reizenstein_ 4. _Pruneau Jaune de
Reizenstein_ 2, 3. _Prune de Reizenstein_ 2, 3. _Quetsche Jaune de
Reizenstein_ 3. Quetsche Jaune de Reizenstein 2, 4. Reizensteiner Gelbe
Zwetsche 3. _Reizensteiner Gelbe Zwetsche_ 2, 4. _Reizensteiner Pflaume_
2, 3, 4. _Reizensteiner Zwetsche_ 3, 4. _Reizenstein’s Yellow Prune_ 2,
3, 4. _Susina Settembrica Quialla_ 3, 4.

Probably originated in Italy. Tree of medium vigor, very prolific, not
hardy; fruit of medium size, irregularly ovate; suture indistinct; skin
golden-yellow; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet; stone rough, free.

=Reutlinger Frühzwetsche.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 162, 363. 1895.

Quetsche Précoce de Reutlingen 2. _Reutlinger Frühzwetsche_ 2.

An attractive variety ripening in early mid-season.

=Rhinebeck Yellow Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 405.
1857.

Rhinebeck Yellow Gage 1.

Originated at Rhinebeck, New York. Tree vigorous; fruit large, oval;
suture deep; cavity shallow; yellow; flesh coarse, juicy, sweet,
pleasant; clingstone; mid-season.

=Rhodes.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68, 69. 1699.

Mentioned by Quintinye “as long and black.”

=Rhue.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 944. 1869.

_Rhue’s Seedling_ 1.

A seedling from Pennsylvania. Fruit large, oval; suture broad, shallow;
cavity deep; reddish-purple; flesh greenish-yellow, coarse, juicy, sweet,
vinous; semi-clinging; good; early.

=Richard Trotter.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 98. 1898.

Reported as one of the hardiest of the European varieties tested by the
Experimental Farm at Ottawa, Canada.

=Richland.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =1=:2, 154 fig. 1859. =2.=
_Ibid._ =5=:18. 1863. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 944. 1869. =4.= _Can.
Exp. Farm. Bul._ =43=:36. 1903.

_Copper_ 2.

Originated on the farm of Randall Elden, Richland, Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, about 1820. Tree hardy, vigorous, productive and said to
be resistant to the curculio; fruit medium in size, oval; cavity small;
suture a line; skin thick, bluish; dots small; flesh greenish-yellow,
firm, slightly sweet; quality fair; stone large, oval, flat, clinging;
mid-season; listed in the catalog of the American Pomological Society in
1875.

=Riga 11.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Rpt._ 111. 1887.

Imported from Russia by J. L. Budd of the Iowa Experiment Station.

=Rigny.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 683. 1884. =2.= Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 420. 1889.

Admiral Rigny 2. Admiral de Rigny 1. _Amiral de Rigny_ 2. _Georg IV_ 2.
_Jackson?_ 2.

Described as of medium size, roundish-oval; suture shallow;
yellowish-green flaked and striped with darker green, with a few crimson
dots on the sunny side; stem of medium length; cavity shallow; flesh
yellow, tender, melting, juicy and rich; nearly freestone; early.

=Rising Sun.= Domestica. =1.= Kenrick _Am. Orch._ 258. 1832.

Corse’s Rising Sun 1.

Originated by Henry Corse, Montreal, Canada. Fruit large, bright yellow,
tinged with red next to the sun; good; productive.

=Rivers Early.= Insititia. =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =29=:177. 1875. =2.=
Hogg _Fruit Man._ 695. 1884. =3.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889. =4.=
Rivers _Cat._ 35. 1898.

_Damas Précoce de Rivers_ 3. Rivers’ Early Damson 1, 3, 4.

Grown by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from a seed of St.
Etienne. Fruit of medium size, sweet and juicy; good.

=Robert.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:15. 1901.

Robert’s Freestone 1.

Fruit of medium size, oblong, flattened; suture a line; light
greenish-yellow overlaid with purplish-red; skin thick, tough; flesh
moderately firm, sweet but not rich; stone nearly free.

=Roby Yellow.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 944. 1869.

A seedling raised by H. R. Roby, Fredericksburg, Virginia. Tree
moderately vigorous; fruit small, round; suture broad, shallow; cavity
small; greenish-yellow; bloom heavy; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, sweet;
good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Rockford.= Americana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891. =2.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 161 fig. 1901. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 128. 1906.

Introduced in 1889 by C. G. Patten of Charles City, Iowa, who found the
variety in 1871 on the farm of O. J. Green who, in turn, had brought it
as a young tree from a grove near Rockford. Tree productive; fruit medium
in size, roundish; cavity medium; suture shallow; skin thick, tough;
dark and somewhat purplish-red; bloom thick; dots small; flesh yellow;
good; stone large, oval, flattened, clinging; mid-season; listed by the
American Pomological Society since 1897.

=Rocky Mountain.= Species? =1.= _Can. Hort._ =15=:157. 1892. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892.

_Rocky Mountain Seedling_ 2.

Reported in the Canadian Horticulturist as a “heavy cropper and of first
quality.” Bailey mentions a “Rocky Mountain Seedling” in an unclassified
list. The Rocky Mountain described by Waugh is not to be confused with
these two varieties as it is undoubtedly a Sand Cherry.

=Rodney.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831.

_Rodney Gage_ 1.

Described in the London Horticultural Society catalog as large, oval,
purple; quality fair; clingstone.

=Rodt Blaue Zwetsche.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 365. 1895.

“A variety of little merit.”

=Rodt Frühe Grosse Pflaumenzwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 447. 1889.

_Grosse Hâtive de Rodt._

=Rognon D’Ane.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:100. 1832.

Fruit large, oval, dark purple; mid-season; similar to Yellow Egg except
in color.

=Rognon de Coq.= Domestica. =1.= Quintinye _Com. Gard._ 68. 1699. =2.=
Miller _Gard. Dict._ =3=:1754. =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831.

Quetsche Rognon de Coq 3.

Mentioned only by the earlier writers. Fruit long; suture deep,
prominent; light yellow streaked with red; clingstone; late.

=Rollande Galloppi.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 944. 1869.

Fruit of medium size, long-oval, necked; suture distinct; cavity small;
yellowish-green, dotted with crimson in the sun; bloom light; flesh
yellowish-green, juicy, sweet; good; clingstone; late.

=Ronald Fancy.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 945. 1869.

Fruit of medium size, oval; suture distinct; cavity medium deep; yellow,
striped with green; bloom thin; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, sugary,
vinous, sprightly; good; freestone; very late.

=Roselle.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:287. 1900.

_Hoffman Seedling_ 1.

A chance seedling grown by Ernest Hoffman, Roselle, Carroll County, Iowa,
in 1892. Fruit large, roundish-oval, yellow blushed with red; sweet;
semi-free; mid-season.

=Ros-Pruim Double.= Domestica. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:62. 1771.

Similar to the Horse plum except that it is smaller.

=Ross.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =23=:438. 1900.

Ross Seedling 1.

A seedling, supposedly of Bradshaw, grown by J. T. Ross, Hamilton,
Canada. Fruit of much the same appearance as Bradshaw but inferior in
quality; earlier in season.

=Rossy Frühe Zwetsche.= Species? Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 447. 1889.

_Rossy’s Früh Zwetsche._

=Rostrave Bell.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 945. 1869.

Originated with John D. Stephens, Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania. Tree
vigorous, productive; fruit large, roundish-oval; suture broad, shallow;
cavity deep; reddish-purple; dots brown; flesh yellow, coarse, rather
dry, vinous; good; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Rote Mirabelle.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448. 1889.

_Damasine Kleine Kirsch Pflaume._ _Mirabelle Rouge._

=Rotes Zeiberl.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448. 1889.

_Rote Herbst Zeiberl_ 1.

Referenced by Mathieu from _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 288. 1884.

=Rote Zwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 448. 1889.

_Rosinen Pflaume._ _Spitzige Rote Pflaume._ _Spitz Pflaume._

=Rothe Jungfernpflaume.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
445. 1881.

A German variety said to be unproductive in dry soil.

=Rouge Hâtive de Nitka.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 96. 1877.

Mentioned in the preceding reference as of medium size, purple, juicy,
rich; good; mid-season.

=Roulette.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:50, 86. 1892. =2.=
_Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 142. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 188. 1901.

Rowlett 2.

Supposed to have originated in Texas. Fruit of medium size, oval; cavity
small; suture a line; skin thin; bright red; dots numerous; bloom thin;
flesh yellow; quality fair; stone oval, flattened, clinging; mid-season.
Listed in the catalog of the American Pomological Society since 1899.

=Round.= Species? =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 83. 1888.

J. Webster of Centralia, Illinois, states that he received this variety
from a Mr. Spears of Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Of high quality; especially
adapted for canning.

=Round Leaf Wonderful.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:612. 1893.

An obscure variety found only in a few collections. Fruit of medium size,
long-oval; suture a line; cavity small; dark purple; bloom thick; dots
small; flesh yellow, fine-grained, tender, sweet, mild; very good; stone
flattened, oval, free; mid-season.

=Rowley.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:36. 1903.

Originated with Jos. Rowley, Cummings Bridge, Ontario. Tree very
productive; fruit above medium size, round; suture a line; purplish-red;
flesh yellow, moderately juicy, firm, sweet, rich; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Royal.= Domestica. =1.= Rea _Flora_ 207. 1676. =2.= Quintinye _Com.
Gard._ 69. 1699. =3.= Langley _Pomona_ 92, Pl. XX fig. 8. 1729. =4.=
Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:40, Tab. 191 fig. 1. 1796. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees
Am._ 945. 1869. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 438. 1889.

Die Königliche grosse Pflaume 4. _French Royal_ 4, 5, 6. Kings Plum 1.
Königspflaume 6. _La Royale_ 5, 6. La Royal 2. _Prune Royale_ 5, 6.
_Royal tres-grosse_ 4, 6. _Royal Red_ 5, 6. _Royal_ 5, 6. Royal 2. _Royal
Plumb_ 3. Royale 5. _Royale_ 6. _Sir Charles Worsley’s_ 3, 5, 6. _Wahre
Königspflaume_ 6.

Royal is an Old World variety supposed to have originated in France.
Tree a slow grower; top bushy; shoots pubescent; fruit medium in size,
roundish; suture distinct; cavity narrow; reddish-purple; dots small,
brownish; bloom thick; flesh yellow, melting, juicy, rich, subacid;
quality very good; stone small, roundish, pointed, free; mid-season.

=Royal Bullace.= Insititia. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 689. 1884.

Royal Bullace is the largest of the Bullaces. Fruit round; suture faint;
cavity wide, deep; stem short, slender; greenish-yellow, mottled with
red; bloom thin; flesh green, sprightly; good; freestone; late.

=Royal Dauphine.= Domestica. =1.= Miller _Gard. Kal._ 184. 1734. =2.=
Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803.

Royal Dauphin 2. Royale Dauphin 1.

Fruit large, oval, dark red shading to light red, mottled; bloom thick;
flesh greenish-yellow, sweet; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Royal de Braunac.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 2nd App. 157.
1876.

Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture very slight; light red
with dark purple blush; dots numerous, brown; bloom heavy; flesh
greenish-yellow, coarse, rather firm, juicy, rich; clingstone; mid-season.

=Royale de Behrens.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 422. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 365. 1895.

Behren’s Königspflaume 1. _Behrens Königspflaume_ 2. _Royale de Behrens_
1.

Listed in the preceding references.

=Royale de Siebenfreud.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 158, 365. 1895.

_Royale de Siebenfreund_ 1. Siebenfreund’s Königspflaume 1.
_Siebenfreud’s Königspflaume_ 2.

Grown by Liegel and named by him in honor of M. Siebenfreud, of Tyrnau,
Hungary. Fruit large, long-oval, brownish-red; flesh pale yellow, juicy;
good; mid-season.

=Royale Hâtive de Liegel.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
420. 1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 430. 1889. =3.= _Guide Prat._ 163,
365. 1895.

Frühe Königspflaume 2. _Frühe Königspflaume_ 3. Königspflaume Frühe 1.
_Rouge de Liegel_ 2. _Royale Hâtive de Liegel_ 2. _Royale Hâtive_ 2.

Similar to the Royal Hâtive but inferior in quality.

=Royale Violette de Keindl.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 437. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 157, 365. 1895.

_Keindl’s Violette Königspflaume_ 2. Keindt’s Violette Königspflaume 1.
_Royale Violette de Keindt_ 1.

Originated by Liegel and named after Mr. Keindl, a German pomologist.
Fruit large, oval, violet; flesh greenish-yellow, firm, juicy; good;
early.

=Royal Pea.= Domestica. Mentioned in Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803.

=Royer Aprikosen Pflaume.= Domestica. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449.
1889.

_Abricotée de Royer._ _Prune-Abricot de Royer._

=Ruben Burgunder Zwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
449. 1889.

=Ruby.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. and For._ =7=:243. 1894.

Charles H. Shinn of Berkeley, California, describes this variety as a
dark red prune coming from Lake County, California.

=Ruby.= Triflora × Munsoniana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 46. 1895.
=2.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:228. 1899. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 224.
1901.

Originated by J. S. Breece, Fayetteville, North Carolina, from seed
of Abundance pollinated with Wild Goose; fruit borne in 1894. Fruit
of medium size, oval; suture faint; dark, wine-red; skin thick; flesh
yellow, firm, meaty, slightly fibrous, sweet, rich; good; clingstone.

=Ruby.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Orchard Home Nur. Cat._ 7. 1891. =2.= Terry
_Cat._ 8. 1900.

A seedling of Wild Goose introduced by L. T. Sanders of the Orchard Home
Nursery, Plain Dealing, Louisiana, in 1891. Fruit slightly smaller than
the parent, round, red with small dots; flesh solid; good; a good shipper.

=Rudolph.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 438. 1881. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449. 1889.

_Frankfurter Pflaume_ 2. _Rudolphspflaume_ 1. Rudolph Pflaume 2.

In Germany considered valuable for dessert, compotes and market. Tree
quick in growth, large; shoots almost glabrous, dark brownish-red; fruit
large, of prune shape; suture shallow; halves usually equal; stem hairy;
cavity shallow; skin easily removed, yellow often flecked with red,
sometimes reddish; flesh yellow, tender, juicy, very sweet, sprightly;
nearly freestone; mid-season.

=Rue.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:288. 1900. =2.= Budd-Hansen
_Am. Hort. Man._ 300. 1903. =3.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:34. 1905.

_J. B. Rue_ 1, 2, 3.

Originated with J. B. Rue, Pottawattamie County, Iowa; distributed by
Professor J. L. Budd. The fruit closely resembles Stoddard except in the
stone, that of the latter being large and flat, while that of the former
is small and round.

=Ruff Choice.= Domestica. =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:484. 1894.

Under test at the Texas Experiment Station.

=Ruff Spanish.= Species? =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:490. 1894.

Under test at the Texas Experiment Station.

=Russian Mirabelle.= Insititia. =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 324.
1903.

Described by Budd and Hansen as a Russian plum; hardier than the
Mirabelle of western Europe and differing in tree and fruit. Fruit small,
roundish-oblate, bright yellow; suture indistinct to distinct at the
apex; cavity narrow; stem medium in length and thickness; flesh yellow,
juicy, rich; quality best; freestone.

=Russian No. 2.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Rpt._ 111. 1887. =2.= _Colo.
Sta. Bul._ =50=:45. 1898.

Imported from Russia. Fruit of medium size, irregular in shape; suture a
line; deep purple with heavy bloom; flesh firm, subacid; quality fair;
freestone.

=Russian No. 3.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Rpt._ 111. 1887. =2.= _S.
Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:35. 1905.

Said to be unproductive and not hardy.

=Sada.= Americana mollis. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:59. 1897. =2.=
_Ibid._ =87=:15. 1901. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 163. 1901.

A seedling of Van Buren grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; first
fruited in 1893. Fruit large, round; suture a line; cavity shallow; red
over a yellow ground with many conspicuous dots; skin thick, tough,
astringent; flesh dark yellow, mushy; quality fair; semi-clinging;
mid-season.

=Saffold.= Species? =1.= _Am. Gard._ =14=:51. 1893. =2.= Bailey _Ev. Nat.
Fruits_ 175. 1898.

A variety brought into Texas from Alabama about 1853 by General Saffold
of Sequin, Texas, where for years it was the only cultivated plum.
Although inferior to later introductions, it is excellent for preserves
and still retains a place among Texan varieties.

=Sagetsuna.= Triflora. =1.= Normand _Sp. Cir._ 1895. =2.= Kerr _Cat._ 8.
1901. =3.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:6, 33. 1905.

Sagetsuma 3. _Wasse Botankyo_ 2.

A variety imported from Japan by J. L. Normand, Marksville, Louisiana.
In 1901, J. W. Kerr fruited Sagetsuna and Wasse Botankyo and found them
identical. Tree vigorous with straggling habit; fruit large, conic, red
over a yellow ground, with numerous dots; flesh yellow, firm; good;
clingstone; earlier than Abundance.

=St. Anne.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 40. 1899.

Bonne St. Ann 1.

Originated in Vermont; catalogued by the American Pomological Society in
1899 and 1901. Fruit blue; good.

=Saint Antoine.= Domestica. =1.= _Traité Prat. Sech. Fruits_ 172. 1893.

Prune de Bordeaux 1.

A plum found in the neighborhood of Gironde, France. The prunes from this
variety are know as Prunes de Bordeaux. The fruits are less esteemed than
those of the Agen.

=Saint Antonio.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153.
1831.

=St. Aubert.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =36=:1205. 1873. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 157, 365. 1895.

Saint Aubert 2.

Of Belgian origin; resembles Golden Drop but is a month earlier and is
superior in quality and productiveness; fruit oval, rounded at both ends,
greenish spotted and marked with a crimson blush; color and flavor of the
flesh like Reine Claude.

=Sainte Therese.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 160, 365. 1895.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, long-oval, reddish-purple; flesh
fine-grained; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=St. Etienne.= Insititia. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 381. 1866. =2.=
Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 431. 1881. =3.= _Gard. Chron._ =24=:187.
1885. =4.= _Guide Prat._ 160, 365. 1895. =5.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 480.
1904.

_Mamelonnee?_ 4. _Pflaume von St. Etienne_ 4. Pflaume von St. Etienne 2.

Tree vigorous; fruit globular or frequently roundish-oval; suture
distinct dividing the sides equally; stem medium; cavity narrow; skin not
adherent; yellow blushed and spotted with red on the sunny side; flesh
yellow, tender, melting, juicy, sweet with a fine flavor; stone small;
free; early.

=St. James.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831. =2.=
_Mag. Hort._ =9=:165. 1843. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 311. 1845.

St. James’ Quetsche 1, 2, 3.

A strain of the German Prune; tree very productive; fruit of medium size,
oblong, purple; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=St. John.= Domestica. =1.= Willich _Dom. Enc._ =4=:195. 1803. =2.=
_Horticulturist_ =3=:396. 1848. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 429. 1854.

_Prune de St. Jean_ 3. Prune de St. Jean 2.

A foreign variety of unknown origin. Tree very productive; fruit of
medium size, round, purplish-blue; flesh greenish-yellow; early.

=St. Lawrence.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 38. 1874. =2.=
Barry _Fr. Garden_ 416. 1883. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 122. 1901.

A seedling of Smith Orleans grown on the grounds of Ellwanger & Barry,
Rochester, New York. Tree vigorous and productive; fruit variable in
size, averages medium, roundish-oval; cavity deep, rounded; stem short;
suture shallow; dark reddish-purple; bloom heavy; flesh yellow, juicy,
melting, sweet; quality poor to fair; clingstone; mid-season.

=Saint Martin Quetsche.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152.
1831. =2.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 283. 1845. =3.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._
55. 1852. =4.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 414. 1854. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:49.
1866-73.

_Coe’s Late Red_ 5. _Prune Violette D’Octobre_ 5. _Rouge Tardive De
Coe_ 5. Saint-Martin 5. Saint Martin’s 4. _Saint Martin’s Quetsche_ 4.
_Violette October Pflaume_ 5.

Of German origin; introduced into this country during the second quarter
of the Nineteenth Century. Fruit of medium size, ovate, yellow, sometimes
blushed; covered with a thin bloom; flesh yellowish, juicy, rich; good;
late; fruit hangs to the tree long after maturity.

=Saint Pierre.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449. 1889. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 156, 366. 1895.

Fruit resembles Mirabelle, though it is larger; yellow marbled with red;
flesh yellow; good; stone nearly free; very early.

=St. Remo.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831.

Cultivated in the garden of the Horticultural Society of London.

=Sandalls.= Domestica. =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =15=:247. 1868. =2.=
_Gard. Chron._ =30=:1311, 1347. 1870.

Sandall’s Plum 2.

Originated about 1800 with a Mr. Sandall at Crab Tree, Fulton, England.
Tree vigorous and attains great size; fruit of medium size, round, dark
purple; flesh firm, reddish-yellow, juicy, pleasant; good; clingstone;
very late.

=Sanders.= Angustifolia varians? =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 200. 1901.

_Honey Grove_ 1.

Introduced by J. S. Kerr, Sherman, Texas, in 1898. Fruit small,
purplish-red; quality fair; very early.

=Sanderson.= Americana. =1.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 300. 1903.

Originated in Minnesota. Fruit large, roundish-oval, light red over a
yellow ground; skin slightly astringent; good; semi-clinging.

=Sandle.= Domestica. Mentioned in Watkins _Cat._ 1892?

=Sandoz.= Species? =1.= Crete _Cat._ 1906.

Introduced by E. F. Stephens of the Crete Nursery, Crete, Nebraska. Tree
hardy; productive; fruit red; early.

=Sand Plum.= Angustifolia watsoni. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 889.
1869. =2.= _Neb. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 173. 1895. =3.= Kansas “_The Plum_” 20,
45. 1900.

Sand Plum is the common name for _Prunus angustifolia watsoni._

=Sannois.= Domestica. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Div. Pom. Bul._ =10=:20. 1901.

Sannois Quetsche 1.

Originated in Sannois, France. A rather unattractive plum in appearance,
but with a fine flavor and high quality. As grown at this Station
the tree is small, vigorous, upright-spreading; fruit above medium
to large, roundish-oblate, slightly compressed; suture shallow; stem
medium in thickness and length; cavity wide, deep; apex flattened; dull,
reddish-purple with darker shades in the sun; bloom moderate; dots
numerous, brownish; skin thick, tough; flesh dark coppery-yellow, juicy,
rather coarse, very fibrous, tough, firm, sweet; very good; stone medium,
irregular-oval, turgid, rough, clinging; very late.

=Sansoto.= _Prunus besseyi_ × Americana. =1.= _Cir. S. Dak. Sta._ 1910.

Sansoto originated in 1907 as a cross between De Soto and _Prunus
besseyi_ made by N. E. Hansen of the South Dakota Experiment Station;
introduced in 1910. Tree productive; fruit small, round, black; bloom
heavy; flesh yellowish-green, sprightly; clingstone.

=Santa Rosa.= Triflora. =1.= _Fancher Creek Nur. Cat._ 1907. =2.= _Ibid._
1909.

Originated by Burbank; introduced by the Fancher Creek Nursery Company in
1907. Fruit very large, round, suture distinct; cavity medium deep; dark
purplish crimson with thin bloom; flesh reddish near the skin shading to
amber near the center; good; clingstone; keeps and ships well.

=Sapa.= _Prunus besseyi_ × Triflora. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ 108. 1908.

Grown by Hansen of the South Dakota Experiment Station from a cross of
Sultan and a selected seedling of the _Prunus besseyi_; fruited in 1907.
Fruit small, round, glossy, dark purple; flesh dark red.

=Saratoga.= Domestica. =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 103. 1889. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Cat._ 25. 1897. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:243, 247. 1899. =4.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 121. 1901. =5.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:256, 257. 1905.

Introduced by Green’s Nursery Company in 1889. Found in a garden at
Saratoga Springs, New York, in 1897. The American Pomological Society
placed it on its fruit catalog list. As tested at this Station it is
identical to the Lombard in fruit-characters but differs in foliage. It
is safe to assume that it is a seedling of the Lombard.

=Saskatchewan.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

Taken from the wild by Thomas Stonewall, Manitoba; tested at the Indian
Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory. Fruit of medium size, red;
good; early.

=Satin.= Hortulana × Triflora. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:228. 1899.

Grown by J. S. Breece, Fayetteville, North Carolina, supposedly from a
cross between Moreman and some Japanese variety. Fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval; suture a line; red with numerous large, yellow dots; skin
thick, tough; flesh firm, yellow; good; clingstone.

=Satsugon.= Triflora. =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =64=:677. 1905.

Originated in 1900 with Levi Bell, Sparkill, New York, from a cross
between Ogon and Satsuma. Fruit large, roundish; cavity deep; dark
red; flesh red, firm, meaty; freestone; quality good; mid-season. The
originator states that this variety will keep in an ordinary cellar for
two months after picking.

=Satsuland.= Triflora × Domestica? =1.= _Rural N. Y._ =64=:677. 1905.

A cross between Satsuma and Richland grown by Levi Bell, Sparkill, New
York, about 1900. Fruit below medium size, oval, cavity lacking; stem
long; purplish-red; clingstone.

=Sauvageon.= Domestica. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 94. 1885.

_Corse’s Sauvageon_ 1.

Raised from seed by Henry Corse of Montreal, Canada. Tree strong,
vigorous, hardy, productive; fruit dark blue; flesh reddish tinged, firm,
sweet and pleasant; late.

=Sayer Favorite.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 94. 1877.

In 1877 J. E. Johnson in a report to the American Pomological Society
mentioned this as a very fine seedling variety growing in Utah.

=Scaldatone.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831.

=Scanarda.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449. 1889.

_Die Scanarda._ _Scanarda._

=Scaudatella.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831. =2.=
Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: Pl. 1839.

Scaldatello 1. Susino Scaudatella 2.

An old variety well known in Italy. Fruit medium, obovate, yellow; flesh
yellow, meaty, juicy and sweet.

=Schamal.= Domestica. =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =7=:31, Pl. 1859. =2.=
Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 897. 1869. =3.= _Le Bon Jard._ LII. 1884. =4.=
_Guide Prat._ 161, 354. 1895.

Automne de Schamali 2. _Damascena Schamali_ 1, 2, 4. _D’Automne de
Schamal_ 2. Prune d’Automne de Schamal 1, 3, 4. _Prune d’Automne de
Schamali_ 2. _Schamal_ 4. _Schamals Herbstpflaume_ 4.

Obtained by M. Schamal, nurseryman and pomologist at Jungbunzlau,
Bohemia; first noted by Liegel in 1844. Tree vigorous, productive; young
branches smooth, brownish-red; fruit large, pear-shaped; suture deep;
halves unequal; stem slender, smooth; purplish-red; flesh yellowish,
juicy, tender, sweet, vinous; stone oval, free; mid-season.

=Schenectady.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ 446. 1847. =2.= Thomas
_Am. Fruit Cult._ 342. 1849. =3.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 414. 1854. =4.=
_Cultivator_ =6=:52, 269. 1858. =5.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 947. 1869.
=6.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 402. 1881.

Catharinenpflaume von Schenectady 6. _Schenectady Catharine_ 4.
Schenectady Catherine Plum 1, 2, 5. _Schenectady Catherine_ 3.

Originated at Schenectady, New York, about 1800; introduced by Dr.
Herman Wendell. It was described in the American Pomological Society’s
catalog for twenty-two years. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit small,
roundish-oval; suture shallow; cavity small; reddish-purple; bloom thin;
flesh greenish-yellow, melting, juicy, rich, sweet; very good; freestone;
mid-season; said to reproduce itself from seed.

=Schieblers Eier Pflaume.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
449. 1889.

=Schiebler Luisante.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 409.
1881.

A seedling of the Red Egg plum, similar, but not an improvement.

=Schlachter Früh Zwetsche.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449.
1889. =2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 366. 1895.

A variety resembling German Prune.

=Schley.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:65, 87. 1892. =2.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 188. 1901.

_Schley’s Large Red_ 1, 2.

Originated near Augusta, Georgia; introduced by J. W. K. Nelson of that
state. Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture slight; cavity of
medium depth; bright red with numerous dots; skin tough; flesh yellow;
poor; clingstone; mid-season.

=Schmidt Rote Zwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 449. 1889.

_Quetsche Rouge de Schmidt_ 1.

Mathieu found it referred to in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 289. 1884.

=Schoenthal.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894-1900.

Fruit of medium size, globular, dull red; stone semi-clinging.

=Schöne von Riom.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 445.
1881.

Mentioned as an unproductive variety on dry soils.

=Schuyler Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 147. 1831. =2.=
_Cultivator_ =1=:306. 1844. =3.= _Ibid._ =3=:19. 1855. =4.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 947. 1869. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:103. 1866-73.

Reine-Claude de Schuyler 5. _Schuyler Gage_ 5.

A seedling of Reine Claude grown at Albany, New York, by General Schuyler
of revolutionary fame, who refused to disseminate it. His successor
in the ownership of the tree, John Bryan, also guarded the variety
jealously, so that it was not until about 1847 when E. C. McIntosh came
into possession of the estate that the variety was introduced. Fruit of
medium size, oval; suture shallow; cavity small; yellow splashed with
green and dotted with red; bloom thin; flesh yellow, juicy, rich, sweet;
very good; freestone; late.

=Scioto.= Insititia. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Yearbook_ 502. 1905.

_Mussel_ 1. _Chickasaw_ 1.

Cultivated for nearly eighty years in the noted Damson district at
Chillicothe, Ohio. It was brought there in 1831 by Miss Palace Hill from
the nursery of her brother, Joseph C. Hill, Petersburg, Virginia, who
in turn had found it on the farm of Thomas Hill near Bollings Bridge,
North Carolina. The variety is of the Damson type and the seed of it was
probably brought from Europe by the early colonists. Fruit small, oval,
necked; suture slight; cavity lacking; dark blue; bloom heavy; good.

=Scribner.= Triflora × Munsoniana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 46, Col.
Pl. 1895. =2.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:19. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
225. 1901.

From J. S. Breece, Fayetteville, North Carolina, supposedly from a cross
of Abundance pollinated by Wild Goose. Fruit large, roundish-oval; suture
faint; cavity large; stem short, stout; dark red with many small dots;
bloom heavy; flesh yellow, firm, meaty; quality very poor; clingstone.

=Sea-Egg.= Triflora. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:62. 1906.

Bailey mentions this variety as coming from Burbank and describes it
as; “globular heart shaped in outline and mottled red; flesh very thick
and meaty; orange-yellow, sweet and excellent, with a slight muskiness,
cling.”

=Semiana.= Domestica. =1.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803. =2.=
Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 344, 346. 1849. =3.= Cole _Am. Fr. Book_ 217.
1849. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 947. 1869.

_Blue Impératrice_ 2, 3, 4. Semiana of Boston 4. Semina 1. _Simiana_ 2.

At one time grown extensively around Boston; often confused with Blue
Impératrice and the Semiana or Suisse of Europe. It is, however, much
inferior to either of the above. Tree vigorous, very productive; fruit
of medium size, oval, necked; cavity very small; deep purple; flesh
greenish, juicy, subacid, not rich; clingstone; very late.

=Seper.= Nigra? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1897-1900. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 171.
1901.

_Seper’s Peach_ 2. Seper’s Peach 1.

Introduced by J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland. Fruit large, roundish-oblong,
dark red; quality poor; clingstone.

=September.= Americana =1.= Meneray _Cat._

One of H. A. Terry’s numerous varieties; introduced by F. W. Meneray of
Council Bluffs, Iowa. Fruit large, round, bright red; fair quality.

=September Damask.= Insititia. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:77.
1768. =2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:45, Tab. 200 fig. 1. 1796. =3.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:84. 1832. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1. 1846. =5.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 357. 1866. =6.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 947. 1869. =7.= Mas
_Pom. Gen._ =2=:1. 1873. =8.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889.

Damas de Septembre 1, 2, 5, 7. _Damas de Septembre_ 3, 6, 8. Die späte
oder September Damaskpflaume 2. _Michaelis Pflaume_ 8. _Münchenpflaume_
8. Prune Damas de Septembre 4. _Prune de Vacance_ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
_Prunier des Vacances_ 3, 6, 8. _Sankt-Michel’s Pflaume_ 8. _September
Damascene_ 8. September Damask 3. _September Damask_ 7, 8. _September
Damson_ 1. Vakanzpflaume 8.

An old variety probably of French origin. Tree of medium vigor,
productive; shoots downy; fruit small, roundish to slightly elongated;
suture shallow; stem short; cavity shallow; skin tender, purplish-black,
covered with a thick bloom; flesh greenish, fine, melting, sweet,
agreeable when well ripened; freestone; late.

=Shaker.= Americana? =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 80. 1880.

Grown in Iowa from seed brought from Ohio. Fruit red, coloring a month
before maturity; ripening period very long.

=Shaw.= Species? =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 103. 1889.

Mentioned by Bailey in the Annals of Horticulture as introduced by Lovett
in 1889; not listed in Lovett’s catalogs.

=Shedd Cluster.= Munsoniana? Letter from F. T. Ramsey.

A prolific variety resembling Robinson selected from the wild on the line
between Lampasas and Coryelle counties, Texas, by a Mr. Shedd.

=Sheldon.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 948. 1869.

Originated on the farm of Wareham Sheldon, Huron, Wayne County, New
York. Tree vigorous and prolific; fruit large, oval; suture a line;
cavity small; purplish-black; bloom thick; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy,
aromatic; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Shepherd Bullace.= Insititia. =1.= Watkins _Nur. Cat._ 48. 1892? =2.=
Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:160. 1901.

Shepherd’s White 2.

A large Bullace mentioned without description in the preceding references.

=Shepway Bulleis.= Insititia. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629.

Parkinson mentions under this name a large “dark bluish-brown” plum of
the Bullace type inferior to the common variety.

=Shilling.= Domestica. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
=162=:256, 257. 1905.

A variety introduced by J. W. Kerr in 1894. Fruit of medium size,
oblong-oval, pointed at the apex; cavity shallow; suture a line; stem
short, stout; dull red; bloom light; flesh yellow; quality poor;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Shipper.= Triflora. 1. Burbank _Cat._ 18. 1893. =2.= Childs _Cat._ 62.
1896.

A seedling of Satsuma grown by Burbank; introduced in 1896 by John Lewis
Childs, Floral Park, New York. Fruit oval, light red; flesh very firm,
juicy, sweet; keeps and ships well; mid-season.

=Shirata Bene.= Triflora. =1.= Lovett _Cat._ 1892. =2.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
=162=:256, 257. 1905.

Introduced as a crimson plum but described at the Ohio Experiment Station
as yellow.

=Shviata Bene.= Triflora. =1.= _Gard. Mon._ 367. 1887.

_Uwase_ 1. _Blood Plum_ 1.

H. H. Berger states that the above name and synonyms were applied to a
red-fleshed variety indigenous to Japan. Probably a class name.

=Siamese.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 284. 1845.

Fruit in pairs firmly attached on one side and hanging from a single
stem. The original tree grew in the garden of Wm. Roe, Newburgh, New
York. Fruit of medium size, obovate; cavity small; skin pale yellow;
flesh yellow, juicy, sprightly; quality fair; clingstone; mid-season.

=Sidone.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.

=Siebenburger Pflaume.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 366. 1895.

“A variety of little merit.”

=Sierra.= Subcordata. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =19=:405. 1896.

Sierra Crimson 1.

Reported in the preceding reference by S. S. Watkins, Grizzly Flats,
California, as a very good wild plum growing high up in the Sierra Nevada
Mountains. Said to bear beautiful crimson fruit about the size of the
Reine Claude, of good quality; highly recommended for jelly.

=Silassy.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:52. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
=152=:211. 1898.

Imported from Hungary by the Michigan Experiment Station.

=Silas Wilson.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892. =2.=
_Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 105. 1900. =3.= Terry _Cat._ 1900.

Grown by H. A. Terry, from seed of Hawkeye; first fruited in 1891. Fruit
large, oval; cavity shallow; suture a line; red over a yellow ground;
dots numerous; flesh yellow, juicy; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Silva Koning Claudie.= Domestica. =1.= Wickson _Cal. Fruits_ 358. 1891.

_Miller’s Early_ 1.

Described by Wickson as an undetermined variety brought from Germany by
Dr. L. E. Miller, of California, in 1854; introduced by C. M. Silva & Son
of Newcastle, California, in 1887. Fruit purplish-black; fine flavor;
similar in size to the Early Royal, and about a month earlier.

=Sirocco.= Triflora ×? =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 47. 1895. =2.= _Vt.
Sta. Bul._ =67=:19. 1895.

J. S. Breece, of Fayetteville, North Carolina grew this variety
as a cross between Abundance and Marianna. Fruit of medium size,
roundish-oval; cavity small; suture a line; coppery-red with streaks
of yellow; dots minute, russet; flesh reddish near the skin but yellow
towards the stone, juicy; good.

=Sisson.= Subcordata kelloggii. =1.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 216, 217.
1898.

Fruit larger than the wild Subcordata; yellow or red; flesh soft and
palatable. See the discussion of _Prunus subcordata_, page 74.

=Sixby.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:15. 1901.

Sent out by Edson Gaylord, Nora Springs, Iowa. Fruit small; suture
distinct; bright red with conspicuous dots; skin adherent; flesh deep
yellow tinged with red, crisp, rich; stone oval.

=Six Weeks.= Triflora × Angustifolia varians? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 10.
1901-2. =2.= _Tex. Nur. Cat._ 8. 1907. =3.= _Tex. Dept. Agr. Bul._
=12=:102. 1910.

Early Six Weeks.

Grown from seed of Abundance crossed with an early “Chicasaw;” named
and introduced by J. S. Kerr of Texas. Tree vigorous, upright, rapid in
growth, resembles the native variety more than Triflora; fruit large,
oblong, yellow tinged red; early.

=Skuya.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ 108. 1908.

A cross between De Soto and Red June made by Hansen of the South Dakota
Experiment Station resulted in eight seedlings of which the above was
the first to fruit. Fruit large, dark, dull red and yellow, sweet; good;
stone small.

=Sloe.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894-1900. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:59. 1897.

Sloe is a small native variety that has been given the common name
of the wild European plum. (See the following name.) Fruit small,
roundish-oblong; skin thick, dark red; clingstone; mid-season. The name
is also applied in one locality or another to nearly all of the American
species of plums as they grow wild.

=Sloe.= Spinosa. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Ray _Hist.
Plant._ 1529. 1688. =3.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:63. 1771. =4.= Prince
_Pom. Man._ =2=:106. 1832.

_Blackthorn_ 4. Black Prunella 2. _Common Sloe_ 4. _Épine noire_
4. _Petit prunallier_ 4. Pruneola 1. _Prunelle_ 3. _Prune Sauvage_
3. _Prunus silvestris_ 3. _Prunus spinosa, foliis lanceolatis_ 3.
_Prunelier_ 4. _Prunus spinosa_ 4. _Prunier èpineux_ 4. _Prunallier_ 4.
Slee-Pruim 3. White Prunella 2. _White Blossomed Sloe_ 4.

See _Prunus spinosa_.

=Small Green Drying.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831.

A variety under test in the garden of the London Horticultural Society.

=Small White Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:81.
1768. =2.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:44, Tab. 198 fig. 1. 1796. =3.=
Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 300. 1846. =4.= Noisette _Man. Comp.
Jard._ =2=:496. 1860. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:127. 1866-73. =6.= Hogg
_Fruit Man._ 726. 1884. =7.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 427. 1889.

_Damas blanc petit_ 6, 7. Damascenen Mirabelle 7. Die Kleine Weisse
Damascenerpflaume 2. _Kleine Weisse Damascene_ 7. _Klein Weisse
Damassener Pflaume_ 5. Petit Damas Blanc 1, 5. _Petit Damas Blanc_ 2,
3, 7. _Prune Petit Damas Blanc_ 5. Prunier Damas à petit fruit blanc 4.
Small White Damask 6. _Small White Damask_ 7. White Damask 3.

Probably a French variety. Tree of medium productiveness; shoots smooth;
fruit small, roundish, inclining to ovate; stem medium in length,
slender; skin yellowish, tinged with red on the sunny side; flesh yellow,
firm, juicy, sweet and well flavored; freestone; mid-season; culinary.

=Smiley.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892. =2.= _Am.
Pom. Soc. Cat._ 40. 1899. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 188. 1901. =4.= _Ga.
Sta. Bul._ =67=:281, 282. 1904.

Thought to have originated in Alabama. Tree vigorous with an open and
spreading habit, very productive; fruit medium or above, roundish-oval
to roundish-oblong; cavity shallow, rounded; suture a line; red with
numerous small, yellow dots; skin tough; flesh yellow, soft; quality fair
to good; stone medium, oval, somewhat flattened, clinging; mid-season.

=Smith.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:18.
1901. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 164. 1901.

A seedling of Quaker grown by C. A. Smith, Caroline County, Maryland.
Tree of straggling, open growth, vigorous and productive; fruit large,
sometimes very large, roundish-oval to roundish-oblong; suture a line;
apex rounded; cavity shallow, narrow; stem short and stout; yellow
overspread with dark red; dots small, yellow; bloom heavy; skin thick,
tough; flesh deep yellow, juicy, firm, sweet; good to best; stone large,
oval, nearly free; medium early. Waugh says, “One of the best Americanas
I ever saw.”

=Smith October.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 146. 1896.

A seedling grown by A. M. Smith, St. Catherines, Ontario. Fruit of medium
size, slightly one-sided; suture obscure; black, somewhat mottled; bloom
light; flesh dark yellow, firm, subacid; quality fair; stone small,
globular with a deep hollow alongside a thickened margin.

=Smith Prolific.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:56.
1900. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 433. 1905.

Under test at the Experimental Farm at Agassiz, British Columbia. Fruit
medium in size, globular; cavity deep; stem short; suture distinct and
terminating in a depression; yellowish with a purple-red cheek; bloom
thin; flesh yellowish, juicy, sprightly; stone of medium size, clinging;
mid-season.

=Smith Red.= Nigra? =1.= _Wis. Sta. Rpt._ =11=:345. 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta.
Bul._ =63=:59, 60. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 171. 1901.

Smith’s Red 1, 2.

Sent to the Wisconsin Experiment Station in 1890 by I. F. Gale &
Son, Waukesha, Wisconsin. Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large,
round-oval; suture a line; stem short and stout, set in a shallow cavity;
purplish-red, shading to orange; dots minute; bloom thin; skin thick with
a very slight harshness; flesh yellow, firm, sweet; fair to good; stone
large, oval, thin, clinging; mid-season.

=Snelling.= Nigra. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 136. 1894. =2.= _Can. Exp.
Farm Bul._ =43=:39. 1903.

Grown by W. H. Snelling, New Edinburgh, Ontario, about 1880 from a sprout
of an old tree growing at Gatineau Point, Quebec. Fruit medium to large,
usually round; stem an inch long, set in a round cavity; suture distinct;
yellowish-red, mostly covered with darker red; bloom light; skin thin,
tender, apt to crack when fully ripe, slightly astringent; flesh soft,
very juicy, sweet; good; stone large, flat; mid-season.

=Snyder.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:288. 1900. =2.=
Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 301. 1903.

A seedling of De Soto; originated in 1893 with J. A. Fairchild, Coggon,
Linn County, Iowa. Tree vigorous, upright; fruit large, roundish,
oblique-truncate; suture a line; apex depressed; stem stout set in a
shallow cavity; light red with darker shades of red; dots large; bloom
thin; flesh yellow, firm, brisk subacid; fair to good; stone large, oval,
flat, clinging.

=Souris.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

Under test at Indian Head, Northwest Territory, Canada.

=South Cumberland.= Species? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 151. 1891.

P. J. Berckmans of Augusta, Georgia, says in the above reference that
this variety has been known for twenty-six or twenty-seven years in his
section. Fruit golden yellow; very good.

=Southern Beauty.= Species? =1.= Wild Bros. _Cat._ 1892. =2.= Kerr _Cat._
1894.

Tree peach-like in growth and general appearance; wholly barren; possibly
the Blackman renamed; worthless.

=Southern Golden.= Species? =1.= _Ala. Sta. Bul._ =11=:12. 1890.

Noted in the preceding reference as a feeble grower; fruit medium in
size, oblong, yellow, tender; quality best; early.

=Spanish Damask.= Domestica. =1.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:129, Tab. 175
fig. 2. 1796. =2.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803. =3.= Willich
_Dom. Enc._ =4=:300. 1803. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1.= 1846. =5.=
Hogg _Fruit Man._ 693. 1884. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 439. 1889.

_Damas d’Espagne_ 1, 6. Damas D’Espagne 5. Die Damaskpflaume aus Spanien
1. Liegel’s Spanische Damascene 6. Prune Damas D’Espagne 4. _Prunus
hispanica_ 4. Spanish Damascene 2. _Spanish Damask_ 6. Spanish Red Damask
3.

Fruit small, roundish; suture shallow; cavity small; stem short;
purplish-black; bloom thick; flesh yellow, tender, juicy, not rich;
quality fair; freestone; mid-season.

=Spanish King.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 355. 1878. =2.=
_Ibid._ 145. 1880. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =169=:243, 247. 1899. =4.= _Ia.
Sta. Bul._ =46=:279. 1900. =5.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 326. 1903.

_Rex_ 1, 2. Spanish 3.

Introduced into Marion County, Iowa, by John Laike, a German, under the
name Rex, through cions obtained in 1872 from a Spanish consul. Several
tests show this variety to be identical with the Lombard. If the origin
given is correct, the belief that the Lombard is an old European variety
is substantiated.

=Späte Zwetsche Von Karlstadt.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
450. 1889.

=Speckled Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. An. Rpt._ =7=:92. 1888.

Originated as a sucker from trees secured in Montreal by James Tobias.
Fruit small, round, purplish, speckled with conspicuous dots; very sweet;
good.

=Speer.= Americana. =1.= =Cornell Sta. Bul.= =38=:42. 1892. =2.= _Colo.
Sta. Bul._ =50=:45. 1898. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 305. 1898.

Found wild by J. A. Speer, Cedar Falls, Iowa. Tree small, very hardy,
spreading, productive, apt to overbear; fruit medium or below,
irregular-oval to oblong; suture distinct; cavity shallow; stem short,
slender; purplish-red on a yellow ground; dots numerous, small; bloom
heavy; flesh yellow, firm and sweet; good; stone large, oval, flat, ends
blunt, semi-clinging; medium late.

=Spicer.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:56. 1900.

Originated with Charles Luedloff of Minnesota; according to the above
reference of no value in British Columbia.

=Spilling Jaune-double.= Insititia. =1.= Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:63. 1771.

Except in its larger size and poorer quality this variety closely
resembles the White Wheat.

=Splendid.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:288. 1900. =2.= Kerr
_Cat._ 6. 1900.

Found wild by I. K. Teeter near Magnolia, Harrison County, Iowa, in 1878;
introduced by J. W. Kerr in 1900. Tree dwarfish, bears early, productive;
fruit medium in size, dark red; skin tough; flesh yellow, very firm,
sweet; good; semi-clinging; medium to late.

=Splendor.= Domestica. =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 15 fig. 1893. =2.= _Cal. State
Bd. Hort. Rpt._ 47. 1897-98. =3.= _Am. Gard._ =21=:36. 1900. =4.= _U. S.
D. A. Yearbook_ 274, Pl. XXXVI. 1903.

Cross-bred Prune A.P.-318 1.

Splendor was originated by Luther Burbank in 1886 from a cross between
Pond and Agen. In 1893 it was sold under the name Cross-bred Prune
A.P.-318 to Stark Brothers of Louisiana, Missouri, who introduced it the
following year under its present name. The fruit is twice the size of
Agen, ovoid, compressed, dark purple; bloom heavy; flesh yellow, rich,
sweet; freestone; hangs well to the tree and ripens its crop all together.

=Spotted Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 949. 1869.

Tree vigorous, very productive; fruit medium or above, oval; suture
shallow; greenish-yellow shaded, mottled and splashed with crimson and
lilac; dots numerous, light; bloom thin; flesh coarse, yellow, sugary,
juicy, a little vinous; good; semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Springer.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:8. 1901. =2.= _Wis.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 91, 94. 1901.

Found wild by Wm. A. Springer of Fremont, Wisconsin; sent to the
Wisconsin Experiment Station in 1890 and named by Professor E. S. Goff.
Tree productive; fruit of large size, deep purplish-red shading to
yellow; dots numerous, yellow; bloom moderate; skin thick, tender, not
harsh; flesh deep yellow, sweet and rich; stone large, thick margined,
clinging; mid-season.

=Stabeler Seedling.= Species? =1.= Elliott _Fr. Book_ 429. 1854.

According to Elliott, an American variety; fruit medium in size, oval,
greenish-yellow with white specks; flesh yellowish, adhering to the
stone; mid-season.

=Standard.= Domestica. =1.= _Gard. Chron._ =13=:600. 1853. =2.= McIntosh
_Bk. Gard._ =2=:533. 1855. =3.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =8=:25, Pl. 1860. =4.=
Hogg _Fruit Man._ 382. 1866. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 429. 1889.

Etendard d’Angleterre 5. _L’Etendard De L’Angleterre_ 3. _Standard of
England_ 5. Standard of England 1, 2, 4.

An English variety raised from seed about 1845 by Henry Dowling of
Woolston. Fruit above medium size, obovate; suture shallow; stem medium;
cavity small; bright red, shading to purplish-red; dots yellow; bloom
thin, violet; flesh greenish, firm, juicy, brisk flavor; good; stone
small, oval, nearly free; mid-season.

=Standard.= Domestica. =1.= Burbank _Cat._ 11. 1911.

This Standard is a cross between Tragedy and Sugar recently sent out by
Luther Burbank. Professor E. J. Wickson of the College of Agriculture at
Berkeley, California, describes it as follows: “Freestone, pit small ⅝
inch by ⅝ inch. Flesh yellowish, melting, fine-grained; very juicy and
sweet; skin dark blue, sub-color dark red, medium texture.”

=Stark Green Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 196. 1891. =2.=
Stark Bros. _Cat._ 1891.

Stark Green Gage is said to be a seedling of Missouri Green Gage;
introduced by Stark Brothers in 1891. As tested at this Station both of
these varieties are identical with Imperial Gage.

=Steinman.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:59. 1897. =2.= _Ia.
Sta. Bul._ =46=:288. 1900. =3.= _Ibid._ =114=:144. 1910.

Steinman No. 2, 3.

Of the type of Stoddard, originated in 1883 by C. Steinman, Mapleton,
Iowa, from a mixed lot of seed of De Soto, Quaker and Forest Garden. Tree
productive; fruit of medium size, oval, conical, one-sided; stem short;
suture distinct; apex pointed; crimson with numerous dots; bloom thick;
skin thin; flesh yellow, watery, sweet; good to very good; stone medium,
oval, pointed; late.

=Stella.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 6. 1900. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._
164. 190=1.=

Grown by Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska. Tree spreading, very
productive; fruit large, globular, purplish-red; season medium.

=Steptoe.= Domestica. =1.= _Oregon Sta. Bul._ =45=:31. 1897. =2.= _Mich.
Sta. Bul._ =152=:211. 1898. =3.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 548. 1901.

Originated with Calvin Throop near Steptoe Butte, Washington; introduced
by George Purdy, Colfax, Washington. Tree upright, vigorous, bears every
year; fruit resembles Italian Prune very much but is larger and ripens
two weeks earlier; ovate, purple; bloom thin; flesh yellowish, juicy,
sweet, pleasant.

=Sterling.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 12. 1898.

Cataloged by J. W. Kerr for three years; not described.

=Stickney.= Species? =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:60. 1897.

A tender-fleshed variety of the season and size of Rollingstone, grown by
Franklin Johnson of Baraboo, Wisconsin.

=Stint.= Domestica. =1.= _Garden_ =52=:261. 1897. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farm
Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:56. 1900. =3.= _Garden_ =62=:133. 1902. 4. Mathieu
_Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.

Stintpflaume 4.

Introduced by Thomas Rivers of Sawbridgeworth, England, in 1885. Tree
dwarfish, very productive; fruit small, roundish, red or reddish-purple;
flesh orange, juicy, sweet, fine; good; stone free; early.

=Stonewood.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =9=:165. 1843.

Listed in the catalog of the London Horticultural Society. Fruit of
medium size, roundish, purple; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Stout.= Domestica. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894.

An inferior blue variety originated by Mr. Stout of Kent County,
Delaware; tested by J. W. Kerr.

=Strawberry.= Angustifolia watsoni. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:65.
1892. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 234. 1901.

Tree dwarf, symmetrical, much subject to twig-blight. Fruit small,
roundish; cavity shallow; stem slender; skin thin, red; bloom thin; flesh
yellow, soft; quality poor; stone roundish, clinging.

=Striped-leaved.= Domestica? =1.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803.

Mentioned by Forsyth as one of the sorts commonly grown in England in his
time.

=Sucker State.= Hortulana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:50, 87. 1892.
=2.= _Col., O., Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 82. 1892. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 182.
1901.

The origin of this variety is not known, but it is thought to have come
from Illinois. Tree vigorous, fairly productive; fruit medium or above,
round-oblong; suture a line; cavity shallow; stem slender; dark red; dots
numerous, small, yellow; bloom very thin or lacking; skin thick; flesh
yellow, firm; good; stone of medium size, clinging; late.

=Suisse.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:82. 1768. =2.=
Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803. =3.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:63.
1832. =4.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 949. 1869. =5.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 726.
1884. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 450. 1889.

_Altesse_ 3, 5, 6. La Prune Suisse 2. _Monsieur Tardif_ 4, 5, 6.
_Monsieur Tardive_ 3, 4. _Prune d’Altesse_ 4, 6. _Prune de Monsieur
Tardive_ 3. Prune Suisse 1. _Prune Suisse_ 3, 4. _Swiss Plum_ 3, 4, 6.
Semiana 6. _Simiana_ 4. Schweizer Pflaume 6. _Switzer’s Plum_ 4, 5, 6.

An old European variety known under many names. In the French nurseries,
it has been badly confused with the Blue Impératrice so common in
England. Tree vigorous and productive; fruit small, oval, dark purple
shading to dark red; bloom heavy; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy and
melting; good; clingstone; late.

=Sultan.= Domestica. =1.= _Jour. Hort._ =21=:243. 1871. =2.= _Flor. and
Pom._ 145. Pl. 1875. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 727. 1884.

Raised by Thomas Rivers, Sawbridgeworth, England, from seed of Belle,
about 1871. Tree vigorous, very productive; fruit medium to large, round
with a deep suture; stem medium; cavity wide; deep red; bloom thick;
flesh greenish-yellow, firm, juicy, brisk and pleasant; clingstone; early
mid-season; said to be an excellent culinary plum.

=Sultaneck Erick.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889.

=Sunrise.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 78. 1897.

Exhibited by C. C. Stirling, Grand Rapids, Michigan, at the meeting of
the American Pomological Society in 1897. Fruit of medium size, round,
yellow and lilac; of the Reine Claude type.

=Sunrise.= Americana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 102. 1902. =2.= _Can.
Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:32. 1903.

A seedling of De Soto from the Central Experimental Farm, Ottawa, Canada.
Fruit large, oval; cavity narrow, shallow, abrupt; suture distinct, but
not depressed; apex rounded; yellow more or less covered with bright red;
dots few, yellow, distinct; bloom medium; skin thick, moderately tough;
flesh deep yellow, juicy, sweet; good; stone large, flat, oval, free or
nearly so; late.

=Sunset.= Americana. =1.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:46. 1898. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:289. 1900.

Originated by Charles E. Pennock of Bellevue, Colorado, in 1892. Tree
vigorous, hardy, very productive; fruit large, oval or oblong; suture
distinct; stem rather long, slender; deep red on a yellow ground,
beautifully shaded; flesh firm, of excellent quality; mid-season.

=Surpasse Monsieur.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:63. 1832.
=2.= Noisette _Man. Comp. Jard._ =2=:498. 1860. =3.= _Le Bon Jard._ 341.
1882.

A hybrid between Monsieur and Jerusalem raised by M. Noisette of
Paris; first fruited in 1819. Tree very vigorous; fruit above medium
size, round, purplish-black; flesh yellow, a trifle harsh; excellent;
mid-season.

=Svedske Tidlig Leipziger.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153.
1831.

Grown in the gardens of the London Horticultural Society prior to 1831.

=Svedske Ungersk.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831.

=Swan.= Domestica. =1.= Rivers _Cat._ 35. 1898. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farm
Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:56. 1900.

Raised by Thomas Rivers of Sawbridgeworth, England. Tree very productive;
fruit large, red; freestone; mid-season.

=Swan Golden.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:56.
1900. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 548. 1901. =3.= _Ibid._ 433. 1905.

Swan 3. Swan’s Yellow 2.

Found only in the preceding reports. Fruit of medium size, roundish;
suture distinct; cavity small; stem short; yellow; flesh yellow, juicy,
sweet, tender; stone small, mid-season.

=Sweet Damson.= Insititia. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831. =2.=
_Mag. Hort._ =9=:163. 1843.

An English variety similar to Shropshire except in its sweetness.

=Swift.= Americana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 119. 1904.

A seedling of De Soto grown at the Central Experimental Farm, Ottawa,
Canada. Fruit large, broad-oval, much flattened; cavity narrow, shallow;
suture a line; apex slightly flattened; yellow, mottled and washed with
deep red; dots obscure; bloom light; skin thick, moderately tough; flesh
pale yellow, juicy, sweet, pleasant; stone above medium, oval, almost
free.

=Szillassy Piros.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:211. 1898.

Noted in the preceding reference as a variety imported from Hungary.

=Tardive de Corny.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 155, 366. 1895.

This variety is a seedling grown by Victor Simon of Corny, Metz, France.
Tree rather small in trunk, but forms a large head, regularly productive;
fruit of medium size, roundish, clear yellow blushed with red; bloom
thin; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, sweet and aromatic; good; late.

=Tardive de Fourqueux.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889.

Mathieu took his references from the _Journal de la Société Nationale et
Centrale d’Horticulture de France_ 169. 1885.

=Tardive de Genes.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 162, 366. 1895.

An Italian variety noted for its size, lateness and color. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit very large, roundish-oval, yellow; flesh firm, sour;
very late.

=Tardive Musquee.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:147. 1873. =2.=
_Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 370. 1887. =3.= _Rev. Hort._ 536, 561. 1893.
=4.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 470. 1894.

_Späte Muskateller Pflaume_ 4.

Originated by M. M. Baltet, a nurseryman at Troyes, France, about
1859. Tree weak, productive; fruit medium to above, round-oval with
an indistinct suture, very deep purple; bloom thick; flesh greenish,
melting, with aroma of musk; good; mid-season. This may be the Late
Muskatelle of Lucas.

=Tarleton.= Cerasifera. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 21. 1897. =2.= _Vt. Sta. An.
Rpt._ =13=:370. 1900.

Waugh says this variety, which comes from Georgia, is very similar to
Early Cherry. Tree vigorous, spreading and irregular in growth; fruit
small, round; suture indistinct; stem medium, set in a shallow cavity;
red; bloom thin; flesh yellow, soft, sweet; quality fair; stone small,
clinging; very early.

=Tatge.= Domestica. =1.= _Penin. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 12. 1892. =2.= _Ia.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 76. 1895. =3.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:289. 1900. =4.=
Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 326. 1903. =5.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =162=:258.
1905.

Tatge is said to have originated at Belle Plains, Benton County, Iowa.
In 1892, J. W. Kerr of Maryland mentioned this plum as a new variety,
brought to notice about 1890. Tatge is so similar to the Lombard that
many authorities have noted them as identical. J. L. Budd of Iowa
considered it somewhat hardier and less subject to rot.

=Tawny.= Domestica. =1.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1528. 1688.

Given by Ray in a list of the best sorts of plums cultivated in his time.

=Taybank.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =12=:341. 1846. =2.= McIntosh
_Bk. Gard._ =2=:532. 1855. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 727. 1884.

Guthries Taybank 1, 2, 3.

Grown by Charles Guthrie, of Taybank, Dundee, Scotland; probably an
offspring of Reine Claude. Fruit nearly large, ovate; suture faint; stem
medium, inserted almost without a depression; greenish-yellow with specks
of russety-red on the sunny side; flesh yellow, juicy, tender, melting,
very sweet, approaching Reine Claude in flavor but not equal to that
variety; clingstone; mid-season.

=Tecumseh.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 13. 1897. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farm
Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:52. 1900.

_Hughes Late_ 1.

J. W. Pool of Indiana who introduced this plum named it Hughes Late but
later changed the name to avoid confusion with the variety named Hughes.
Fruit medium in size, round, yellow mottled with bright red changing to
coppery-red when fully ripe; clingstone; mid-season.

=Temple.= Species? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 1875-1899.

Listed by the American Pomological Society in its catalog from 1875 to
1899.

=Tenneha.= Species? Mentioned in _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892.

=Tennessee.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Am. Jour. Hort._ =5=:148. 1869.

Tennessee Plum 1.

A strain of Wild Goose.

=Terrell.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 249. 1903. =2.= _Glen.
St. Mary Nur. Cat._ 1904.

A seedling of Excelsior from Jay Terrell, Hastings, Florida; introduced
by the Glen St. Mary Nurseries, Glen St. Mary, Florida. Tree healthy,
vigorous, similar to Excelsior, bears heavy crops annually; fruit medium
to large, nearly round; suture a line; apex blunt; cavity medium in
depth; stem short and slender; reddish-yellow, somewhat mottled and
deepening to wine-red; dots minute, yellowish; skin thin, tough; flesh
greenish-yellow, meaty, subacid, rich; excellent; stone small, broadly
oval, turgid, clinging; ripens in June in the South.

=Terry.= Americana mollis. =1.= Stark Bros. _Cat._ 1896. =2.= _Ia. Sta.
Bul._ =46=:271. 1900. =3.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 224. 1902. =4.= _S. Dak.
Sta. Bul._ =93=:40. 1905.

Free Silver 2. _Free Silver_ 1, 3, 4.

H. A. Terry of Crescent, Iowa grew this variety from seed of Van Buren;
first fruited about 1896. Tree vigorous, upright, open; fruit large,
regular, oval; cavity small, shallow; suture indistinct; dark red; dots
small, gray; bloom thin; flesh yellow, firm but melting; good; stone
large, oval, clinging; mid-season; ripens very evenly.

=Terry De Soto.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =2.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._
=46=:289. 1900.

Terry’s Desota 1.

A seedling of De Soto, grown by H. A. Terry. Tree vigorous, upright,
productive; fruit large, golden-yellow overspread with light crimson,
mottled with darker shades; flesh yellow, rich and sweet; clingstone;
early.

=Texas Belle.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 34, 57. 1888. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:50. 1892. =3.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:481. 1894.

_Belle_ 2. Paris Belle 1, 3.

Grown by Stephen H. Turner of Texas; introduced by Dr. W. W. Steele of
Paris, Texas. Tree small, drooping, hardy and productive; fruit medium
to large, roundish, light red; flesh yellow, firm, sweet and pleasant;
stone short and turgid, clinging; last of June in Texas. Mentioned in the
catalog of the American Pomological Society in 1897.

=Texas Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:484. 1894.

Noted in the preceding reference as having been grown at the Texas
Experiment Station.

=Thanksgiving.= Domestica. =1.= Green _Cat._ 8. 1902. =2.= _W. N. Y.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 25. 1904.

Thanksgiving Prune 1.

Thanksgiving originated with a Mr. Gridley of Chili, New York; introduced
in 1902 by Charles A. Green of Rochester, New York. Fruit of medium size,
oval; suture distinct; purplish-black; sweet; good; late; shrivels and
keeps for some time after picking.

=Theresa.= Domestica? =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 264. 1892. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 74. 1895.

Originated at Bloomingburgh, Ohio; named for Mrs. Theresa M. Morris of
that place. Tree bears heavily and regularly, hardy; fruit of medium
size, roundish-oval, reddish-purple; bloom heavy; flesh yellowish-green,
very mild, sweet; good; early.

=Thomas.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =7=:388. 1841. =2.= Downing _Fr.
Trees Am._ 315. 1845. =3.= _Mag. Hort._ =14=:155. 1848. =4.= Hovey _Fr.
Am._ =1=:95. 1851. =5.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 439. 1881.

Thomaspflaume 5.

Found in the garden of Wm. Thomas of Boston for whom it was named by
the Massachusetts Horticultural Society; first fruited about 1840. Tree
vigorous, productive, bears early; fruit large, roundish-oval inclined to
oblong; suture shallow with sides unequal; cavity small and narrow; stem
medium, rather stout; deep amber mottled and shaded with soft red; dots
white, numerous, bloom thin; flesh yellow; juicy, somewhat coarse with a
mild pleasant flavor; quality medium; stone rather large, roundish-ovate,
light in color, free; mid-season.

=Thomas October.= Domestica? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 85. 1854.

Said to have originated in Upper Dublin Township, Montgomery County,
Pennsylvania. Fruit medium in size, pale red; good.

=Thompsons Golden Green.= Species? =1.= _Country Gent._ =26=:238. 1865.

From R. O. Thompson, Nebraska. Fruit bronze or gold in color, dotted with
red in the sun; very sweet, juicy; freestone.

=Thorndyke Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 950. 1869.

Originated near Newburgh, New York. Tree moderately vigorous; fruit below
medium size, roundish; suture slight; pale green; flesh greenish, juicy,
sweet, pleasant; clingstone; good; mid-season.

=Thousand-and-one.= Munsoniana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 189. 1901.

Origin unknown. Fruit small, round; suture indistinct; cavity small;
bright red with many small, conspicuous dots; flesh yellow, soft; stone
small, oval, clinging; mid-season or earlier.

=Thresher.= Domestica. =1.= _Pioneer Nur. Cat._ 1900.

An improved strain of Agen grown by a Mr. Thresher of California.

=Throop.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =152=:211. 1898. =2.= _Can.
Exp. Farms Rpt._ 547. 1901. =3.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =27=:16. 1904.

From George E. Ruedy, Colfax, Washington, in 1896. Tree vigorous,
upright, productive; fruit of medium size, ovate; cavity small; suture
shallow; dark purple; bloom thin; flesh yellow, firm, coarse, sweet,
pleasant; quality fair; freestone; mid-season.

=Throop No. 1.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:57.
1900.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, oval; suture broad, distinct;
cavity usually lacking; red with thin bloom; flesh yellow, firm, juicy,
sweet, rich; stone roundish, free; early.

=Throop No. 2.= Domestica. =1.= _Mich. Sta. Sp. Bul._ =27=:16. 1904.

Tree vigorous, unproductive; fruit large, roundish; sides unequal; suture
broad; cavity small; reddish-purple; bloom heavy; dots few, yellow; flesh
greenish-yellow, firm, a little coarse, sweet; good; stone semi-clinging;
mid-season.

=Throssel.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:290. 1900.

Found wild on the Des Moines River by a Mr. Throssel, Pierson, Woodbury
County, Iowa. Tree vigorous, hardy; fruit large; suture distinct; late.

=Tillemond.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:93. 1832.

_Belle Tillemond_ 1. _Prunier de Tillemond_ 1.

Fruit very large, oval; cavity slight; stem large; light purple, with
a darker cheek; flesh greenish, somewhat melting, sharp and acid, not
pleasant; late.

=Tobias Gage.= Domestica. =1.= _N. Y. Sta. Rpt._ =12=:612. 1893.

Tobias Gage is a supposed seedling of Reine Claude received for testing
at this Station in 1888 from J. T. Macomber, Grand Isle, Vermont. Tree
moderately vigorous and productive; fruit below medium in size, oblate;
suture and cavity shallow; dark coppery-yellow with a dull mottled red
blush; bloom thin; flesh yellow, slightly fibrous, firm, sweet; quality
good; stone small, semi-clinging; not equal to Reine Claude in appearance
or quality.

=Togo.= Triflora. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 119. 1904.

A seedling of Red June from the Central Experimental Farm, Ottawa,
Canada, from seed planted in 1895; named in honor of Admiral Togo.
Fruit above medium, roundish; suture usually indistinct; cavity narrow,
medium in depth, abrupt; yellow overlaid with deep red, with many small,
inconspicuous dots; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, sweet; good; stone of
medium size, oval, flattened, clinging.

=Tokeya.= _Prunus besseyi_ × Simonii. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ 108. 1908.

One of a lot of hybrids originated at the South Dakota Experiment
Station, first fruiting in 1906. Fruit one and three-eighths inches in
diameter, flat, dark red; flesh green, sprightly subacid, intermediate
between that of the two parents; good; stone very small; early.

=Tomato.= Cerasifera. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =13=:370. 1900.

According to Waugh, a seedling of Pissardi, from A. L. Bruce, Basin
Springs, Texas. Fruit small to medium, spherical; cavity shallow; stem
short, slender; dark red; dots very minute; bloom thin; flesh soft,
yellow; poor to fair; stone large, oval, flattened, clinging; mid-season.

=Tomlingson.= Species? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:80. 1892.

Given by Bailey in a list of native plums.

=Towakong.= Rivularis. =1.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 223. 1898.

_Creek_ 1. Rivularis 1.

The Indian name of _Prunus rivularis_.

=Trabesche.= Domestica. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =28=:231. 1895. =2.= _Ibid._
=31=:348. 1895.

Trabeshe 2.

A Russian variety introduced into this country by Charles Gibb; tested at
the Iowa Agricultural Experiment Station. Tree hardy, bears early; fruit
large, oval, blue; quality best; freestone; mid-season.

=Transparente.= Species? =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 406. 1881.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 157, 366. 1895.

Durchsichtige 1. _Die Durchsichtige_ 2. _Frühe Gelbe Reine Claude_ 2.

Distinct from the English variety, Transparent. Fruit of medium size,
oval clear greenish-yellow; flesh yellow, firm, juicy, aromatic; good;
clingstone; early.

=Trapps Königspflaume.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._
423. 1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889.

Königspflaume von Trapp’s 1. _Royale de Trapp_ 2. _Von Trapp’s Königs
Pflaume_ 2.

Produced by Liegel. Tree vigorous; fruit medium in size, oblate; suture
shallow; halves equal or nearly so; stem with short hairs; cavity wide,
deep; skin easily removed, sourish; bluish-black; dots fine, numerous,
golden; bloom thick; flesh greenish-yellow, fine, juicy, sprightly,
pleasant; freestone; ripens before the Reine Claude.

=Traubenpflaume.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889.

_Usum Erreck_ 1.

Reference found by Mathieu in _Obst-Garten_ 47. 1885.

=Trauttenberg.= Domestica. =1.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:81. 1873. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889.

_Die Zuckersüsse_ 2. _König Zwetsche_ 2. _Sucree de Trauttenberg_ 2.
Sucree-Douce De Trauttenberg 1, 2. _Trauttenberg Zuckersüsse_ 1. Von
Trauttenberg’s Zuckersüsse 2.

Originated in Bohemia; named in honor of Baron Trauttenberg, a zealous
pomologist. Fruit medium in size, obovate and flattened; suture a line;
skin brownish-purple; bloom thick; flesh yellowish-green, juicy, very
rich, aromatic; excellent for dessert; stone rough, free; mid-season.

=Trianon.= Domestica. Listed in _Lond. Hort Soc. Cat._ 153. 1831.

=Trinkle No. 4.= Triflora. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 135. 1905.

John W. Trinkle of Madison, Indiana, grew this plum from seed of Burbank
about 1897. Tree vigorous, spreading; fruit large; suture medium; apex
small; cavity large, regular, deep; yellowish; dots small, yellow; skin
thick, tenacious, bitter; flesh yellowish, slightly translucent, meaty,
moderately juicy, mild subacid; good to very good; mid-season.

=Trostle.= Species? =1.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 234. 1901.

Known only in the vicinity of Kingsley, Iowa. Fruit dark red.

=Trouvée de Vouêche.= Species? =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 398. 1857.
=2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889.

_Trouvée de Vaunêge_ 2. Trouvée de Vonêche 2.

Found wild by Gregoire (probably of Belgium) and introduced by him. Tree
moderately vigorous; fruit medium to small, oval, regular, reddish-violet
with a darker cheek; bloom violet; flesh juicy, sweet; very good;
mid-season.

=Truro.= Americana × Hortulana mineri. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 47.
1895. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 164. 1901.

From Ezra W. Tucker, Williamsfield, Illinois, about 1895. A seedling of
Weaver crossed with Miner. Tree upright, hardy; fruit large, oblong;
suture shallow; cavity small, shallow; red with many, small, russet dots;
flesh yellowish with yellow veins, tender, melting, juicy, mild subacid;
very good; stone medium, oval, clinging; late.

=Tucker.= Species? =1.= _U. S. D. A. Pom. Rpt._ 26. 1894.

Another seedling from Ezra W. Tucker; said to be grown from seed taken
from a cluster of trees containing Weaver, Miner, Wild Goose and two
prune trees; first fruited in 1894. Tree resembles Wild Goose; fruit
medium to large, pyriform, greenish-yellow, overspread with light
purplish-red; dots many, small; skin thick, tender, almost sweet; very
good; stone large, angular, clinging; mid-season.

=Tudor.= Munsoniana? =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:481. 1894.

Tested at the Texas Experiment Station. Tree vigorous and productive;
fruit above medium size, oblong, light red; skin very thin; flesh acid
unless fully ripe.

=Turkey.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576, 577. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 208. 1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1529. 1688. =4.= Langley
_Pomona_ 95, 97, Pl. XXV fig. V. 1729. =5.= Abercrombie _Gard. Ass’t_ 13.
1786.

Turkie =1.= Turky =2.= Turkey Plumb 4.

From the brief descriptions of the Seventeenth Century writers, it
appears that Turkey was a large blue plum of the German Prune type but
the variety has either long since been buried under the hosts of new
sorts that have been developed or a new name has been given it.

=Turkish Prune.= Domestica. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 152. 1831. =2.=
R. G. Chase _Cat._ =3.= Rice Bros. _Cat._ 1908.

_Quetsche Turkish_ 1.

The name “Turkish Prune,” although sometimes applied to the Italian
Prune does not seem to be connected with any particular variety. It may
be a synonym of the “Jerusalem Prune” or it may have developed, as a
corruption of the still older “Turkey” plum mentioned by Parkinson and
other writers in the Seventeenth Century.

=Twice Bearing.= Domestica. =1.= Duhamel _Trait. Arb. Fr._ =2=:113. 1768.
=2.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:103. 1832. =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 144.
1831. =4.= Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ =1=:1846. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:79.
1866-73. =6.= Nicholson _Dict. Gard._ =3=:235. =7.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
455. 1889.

_Bifere_ 2, 7. Bifere 5. _Bon deux fois l’an?_ 2. _Bonne deux fois l’an_
3. _De Deux Saison_ 5. _Deux fois l’an_ 2. _P. biferum_ 6. _Prune bifere
=2.= Prune de Deux Saisons_ 2, 7. _Prune qui fructifie deux fois l’an_ 5,
7. _Prunier bifere_ 4. _Prunier Fleurissant et Poussant Deux Fois_ 5, 7.
_Prunier qui fructifie deux fois par an_ 1, 2. Prunus bifera 1. _Zweimal
Blühende und Zweimal Tragende Bunte Pflaume_ 5, 7. Zweimal Tragende 7.

A Domestica of ancient origin grown more as a curiosity and an ornamental
than for utility. Fruit long, almost olive-form; suture faint; skin
reddish-yellow, heavily tinged with brown; bloom heavy; flesh coarse,
yellow, green beneath the suture, juice insipid; stone almost smooth,
acutely pointed, clinging. The first crop is borne the beginning of
August; the second very late; both worthless.

=Twins.= Domestica. =1.= _Montreal Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 55. 1878.

_Corse’s Twins_ 1.

A curious double plum which originated with Henry Corse, Montreal,
Canada; inferior.

=Tzaueron.= Insititia? =1.= _Rev. Hort._ 357. 1891.

Le Prunier Tzaneron 1. _Tzaneron_ 1.

Very generally grown throughout southeastern Europe. Tree below medium
size; branches upright; leaves small; glabrous, oval, deep green in
color; fruit grows in clusters, small, pale yellow; flesh firm, juicy,
sprightly, refreshing. This variety is an important commercial sort in
the country where it is grown.

=Ulysses.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 950. 1869.

From western New York; fruit above medium size, roundish-oval, whitish,
shaded and mottled with violet-purple; bloom thin; flesh yellow, juicy,
sweet; good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Uncle Ben.= Domestica? =1.= _Gard. and For._ =7=:243. 1894. =2.= Kansas
“_The Plum_” 29. 1900.

Originated in Stanislaus County, Napa Valley, California; fruit medium to
large, golden-yellow, spotted with red; flesh sweet, juicy, very good;
freestone; late.

=Ungarische Dattel Zwetsche.= Domestica? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
451. 1889.

_Ungarische Späte Bouteillen Zwetsche._

=Union.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =6=:269 fig. 1895. =2.= _Ont. Fr.
Exp. Sta. Rpt._ 120. 1898. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._ =113=:161. 1899. =4.=
Waugh _Plum Cult._ 124. 1901.

Reagles’ Union Purple 1. Union Purple 2, 3. _Union Purple_ 4.

Union originated about 1850 with C. Reagles of Schenectady, New York.
Tree hardy, productive; fruit medium in size, roundish-oval, dark purple;
bloom thick; stem adheres strongly to the fruit; flesh dark yellow,
firm, tender, sweet, mild; quality fair; stone oval, turgid, clinging;
mid-season.

=Uryany.= Domestica.

Introduced from Ammassia, Turkey, by the United States Department
of Agriculture in 1904 and sent to this Station for testing. Tree
vigorous, upright with a dense top; fruit variable in size, roundish
to roundish-ovate; suture a line; cavity narrow, deep, abrupt; stem
rather thick, short; dark purple; dots numerous, very small, yellowish;
bloom heavy; skin thin, tough, astringent; flesh yellow, tender, very
juicy, sweet, pleasant; good; stone of medium size, somewhat flattened,
clinging; season late.

=U. S.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 6. 1900. =2.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 165.
1901. =3.= _Wis. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 109. 1903.

_Brittlewood No._ 2 3. _United States_ 3.

Originated by Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska. Tree vigorous and
productive; fruit large, spherical, dark purplish-red; flesh a trifle
coarse; good; clingstone; medium to late.

=Valence.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =9=:163. 1843. =2.= _Lond. Hort.
Soc. Cat._ 145, 153. 1831.

Damas de Valence 1, 2. _Saint Loo_ 2.

Fruit small, roundish, purple; clingstone; late.

=Valentia.= Domestica. =1.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803.

Mentioned as a plum of value by Forsyth.

=Valienciennes.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889.

_Die Valienciennes._ _Edle Königs Pflaume._

=Value.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 6. 1902-3. =2.= _Can. Exp. Farm
Bul._ =43=:39. 1903.

Originated by Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska; introduced in 1902
by J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland. Tree vigorous, healthy and productive;
fruit large, round or sometimes inclined to oblong, dark red; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Van Benschoten.= Domestica.

Van Benschoten was introduced by a Mr. Snyder of Kingston, New York.
Fruit of medium size, roundish, greenish-yellow with russet spots; good;
stone small, free.

=Van Buren.= Americana mollis. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 286. 1887. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:42. 1892. =3.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:46, Pl.
XV. 1898. =4.= _Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ =43=:32. 1903.

Van Buren came from a wild seedling in Van Buren County, Iowa; introduced
by J. Thacher. Tree spreading, moderately productive and slow growing;
fruit of medium size, roundish; cavity small; suture a line; skin thick;
red over yellow; bloom thin; flesh yellow, juicy, firm, sweet; quality
good; clingstone; season late.

=Van Deman.= Americana. =1.= _U. S. D. A. Rpt._ 392. 1891. =2.= _Am. Pom.
Soc. Rpt._ 88. 1895. =3.= Terry _Cat._ 1900. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 165.
1901.

Van Dieman 2.

Van Deman is a seedling of Hawkeye grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa;
first fruited in 1891. Fruit large, oval; cavity small; suture a line;
skin thick; dark red; bloom thick; flesh yellow; quality fair; stone
oval, flattened, clinging; season late.

=Van Houten.= Species? =1.= Terry _Cat._ 5. 1900.

A plum of unknown parentage from H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; first
fruited in 1895; dwarfish; productive; fruit very large, round, bright
red; mid-season.

=Venetianische Zweimal Tragende.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 452. 1889.

_La Bonne Deux Fois L’An._ _La Venitienne_.

=Venus.= Munsoniana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 8. 1900.

From H. A. Terry; of unknown parentage. Tree upright, productive; fruit
very large, yellow overspread with light pinkish-red becoming darker
red; dots numerous, white; flesh yellow, very sweet and rich; good;
clingstone; early.

=Verdacchio.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 208. 1676. =3.= Gallesio _Pom. Ital._ =2=: fig. 1839.

Verdock 1, 2.

An old Italian variety. A few of the modern writers hold it to be the
Reine Claude but according to Gallesio, it is a distinct plum. Fruit
medium in size, obovate, greenish; flesh crisp, sweet, agreeable; very
good.

=Verdache.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 451. 1889. =2.= _Guide
Prat._ 161, 366. 1895.

Tree very productive; fruit small, oval, yellowish olive-green with flesh
the same color, sweet; late; said to be excellent for making prunes or
for cooking.

=Vermilion.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:44. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 165. 1901.

Le Duc Vermillion 1, 2. _Le Duc Vermillion_ 3.

Grown for some years by J. W. Kerr, but dropped in 1901. Fruit medium in
size, roundish-oblong, bright red; flesh yellow, very good; clingstone;
late.

=Vermilon Hâtif.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 452. 1889.

=Vesuvius.= Cerasifera ×? =1.= _Fancher Creek Nur. Cat._ 1907-8. =2.=
_Ibid._ 1909.

_Foliage Plum_ 1, 2.

Grown by Luther Burbank from a cross between Pissardi and some native
or Triflora sort; introduced by the Fancher Creek Nurseries in 1907.
Tree vigorous, elm-like in habit of growth, not productive; fruit small,
roundish, purplish-red; flesh yellow; quality fair; stone small; valuable
only as an ornamental.

=Vick.= Munsoniana × Americana? =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 287. 1887.
=2.= _Ibid._ 276. 1893. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:14. 1901.

James Vick 1, 2, 3.

Supposed to be a seedling of Wild Goose crossed with some Americana;
originated by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa, about 1880. Fruit of medium
size, roundish-oval; dots numerous; suture distinct; bright red; bloom
light; flesh yellowish-green, tender; quality fair; stone small,
clinging; mid-season.

=Victor.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling raised at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Northwest Territory,
Canada. Fruit of medium size; mid-season.

=Victoria.= Species? Letter from Kerr.

Originated by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska; fruit large, firm;
poor.

=Violet.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 578. 1629. =2.= Langley
_Pomona_ 92, fig. VII. 1729. =3.= _Garden_ =50=:223. 1897. =4.= _Mich.
Sta. Sp. Bul._ =27=:16. 1904.

_Early Violet_ 3. Violette 4. Violet Plumb 2.

This variety is possibly the same as Précoce de Tours but we are unable
to identify it positively with this or any other known variety. The
“Violette” mentioned in the fourth reference above may not be identical
with the Violet of the older writers but it seems to be similar.
According to Parkinson the Violet is “a small and long blackish blew
plum, ripe about Bartholomew tide, a very good dry eating plum.”

=Victor Sand Cherry.= (_Prunus besseyi_ × Munsoniana) × Domestica. =1.=
_Am. Br. Assoc. Rpt._ =2=:184. 1906.

Theodore Williams of Benson, Nebraska pollinated _Prunus besseyi_ with
Wild Goose and the resulting seedling was fertilized with pollen from
Quackenboss. This final cross resulted in the variety under discussion.
Fruit nearly two inches in diameter; apparently of value.

=Violet Imperial.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =4=:196. 1849.

_Die Violette Kaiserpflaume_ 1. _Impériale Violette_ 1.

Violet Imperial is usually considered the same as Red Magnum Bonum but
Liegel describes it as distinct in that its leaves are shorter, its fruit
smaller, darker and ripening period three or four weeks later.

=Violet Royal.= Domestica. Mentioned in Miller _Gard. Kal._ 155. 1734.

=Violette Americaine.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 452. 1889.

Mathieu found reference in Revue Horticole 351. 1869.

=Virgata.= Species? =1.= _Ga. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 51. 1889.

A tender shrub of value only as an ornamental. Flowers semi-double, rose
colored; fruit of medium size, oblong, yellow; flesh yellow, juicy,
subacid; quality fair; clingstone; very early.

=Virgie.= Hortulana mineri × Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._
=12=:229. 1899.

Originated with A. L. Bruce of Texas; a cross between Miner and Crimson
Beauty. Fruit medium, nearly round; suture a line; cavity very shallow;
deep crimson with many yellow dots; flesh yellow; good; stone small,
round, slightly flattened, clinging.

=Virginia Damson.= Insititia. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 151. 1891.

Mentioned in the preceding reference as doing well in Virginia.

=Von Berlepsch Zwetsche.= Domestica. Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
453. 1889.

_Berlepsch’s Violette Zwetsche._

=Von Bose Rote Zwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453.
1889.

=Von Lade Späte Mirabelle.= Insititia. Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453.
1889.

=Von Moro Reine Claude.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889.

Mathieu’s reference taken from _Pomologische Monatshefte_ 1. 1878.

=Voslauer Zwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Mathieu =Nom. Pom.= 453. 1889. =2.=
_Guide Prat._ 163, 367. 1895.

Similar to the Italian Prune.

=Vulcan.= Triflora ×? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:229. 1899.

A hybrid grown by Luther Burbank; much like Wickson. Fruit very large,
oval, with sides unequal; cavity large, abrupt; stem short, very stout;
suture deep at the top; purple with darker shades; dots numerous, yellow;
flesh red next the skin, sweet and pleasant; excellent; stone large,
elliptical, slightly flattened, clinging.

=Wabash.= Species? =1.= _Ind. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 72. 1868.

Noted as a native variety grown in Gibson and Posey Counties, Indiana.
Tree low and shrubby, bearing early; fruit large, conical.

=Wady.= Species? =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 286. 1887. =2.= _Cornell Sta.
Bul._ =38=:80. 1892. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:62. 1897.

_Wady’s Early_ 1, 2, 3.

Reported as of little value except for early ripening and productiveness;
fruit small; good for canning.

=Wagner.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =46=:291. 1900.

Wagner No. 9 1.

A seedling of Weaver fertilized with a wild variety; grown by J. F.
Wagner, Bennett, Iowa, in 1894. Fruit small, ovate; cavity broad,
shallow; suture clearly defined; yellowish-red; bloom thin; flesh
brownish-yellow, sugary, sweet; quality best; stone large, flattened,
clinging; mid-season.

=Wahre Frühzwetsche.= Domestica. =1.= Lucas _Vollst. Hand. Obst._ 473.
1894. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889.

_August Zwetsche_ 2. _Couetsche Précoce_ 2. _Couetsche Précoce La Vraie_
2. _Diel’s August Zwetsche_ 2. _Frühe Gemeine Zwetsche_ 2. _Frühe Haus
Zwetsche_ 2. _Frühe Zwetsche_ 2. _Précoce Veritable_ 2.

Tree large, a quick grower; fruit medium, oval, dark blue; stone
completely free; valuable for dessert and drying.

=Wahre Weisse Diaprée.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453.
1889.

_Dorell’s Neue Weisse Diaprée._

=Wakapa.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ 108. 1908.

A hybrid between De Soto and Red June reported by Hansen, the originator,
in the preceding reference as worthy of further testing.

=Walker Seedling.= Domestica. =1.= _Can. Hort._ =21=:390. 1898.

A seedling raised by A. W. Walker, Clarksburg, Ontario. Fruit of medium
size, dark maroon; flesh greenish, tender, moderately juicy, sweet,
pleasant; freestone; early.

=Wallace.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

A seedling of Harrison grown by H. A. Terry; introduced by F. W. Meneray,
Council Bluffs, Iowa. Tree healthy, vigorous and productive; fruit large,
inclined to oblong, bright yellow overspread with red; flesh firm; good;
semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Walter.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 431. 1881.

Produced by Herr Walter in Altenburg, Germany; valuable for table and
market purposes. Tree vigorous; shoots glabrous; fruit roundish-oval,
medium; suture deep; halves usually equal; stem thick, straight, strongly
hairy; skin not adherent, dark brown; bloom thick; flesh yellow, tender,
very juicy; like Reine Claude in flavor; early.

=Walther Pflaume.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889.

The reference by Mathieu came from _Monatsschrift für Pomologie_ 281.
1858.

=Ward October Red.= Rivularis ×? =1.= Munson _Cat._ 10. 1902-3.

Found in Clay County, Texas, by Robert Ward; introduced by T. V. Munson,
Denison, Texas. Tree very vigorous and hardy, spreading habit, very
productive; fruit dark bright red with meaty flesh; excellent quality;
stone small; ripens in Texas in September and October.

=Warner.= Domestica. =1.= _W. N. Y. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =31=:60. 1886. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:193. 1897.

Warner’s Late 1. Warner’s Late Red 2.

Warner originated in Schoharie County, New York, and was introduced
by S. D. Willard, Geneva, New York. It is a late variety too small
and unattractive for commercial purposes. Fruit below medium in size,
roundish; cavity shallow; suture a line; stem three-quarters of an inch
long; skin moderately thick, dull greenish-red; bloom thin; flesh yellow,
juicy, firm, sweet, mild; quality fair to good; stone oval, slightly
flattened, clinging; season very late.

=Warren.= Americana. =1.= Terry _Cat._ 5. 1900.

Grown from seed of Hawkeye by H. A. Terry; first fruited in 1897. Fruit
large, mottled light red, with thin bloom; late.

=Wastesa.= Species? =1.= _Cir. S. Dak. Exp. Sta._ 1910.

_State Fair No. 16_ 1.

A seedling of some native plum; grown and sent out by N. E. Hansen of the
South Dakota Experiment Station.

=Waterloo Pflaume.= Domestica? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 453. 1889.

_Duc de Waterloo_ 1. _Prune de Waterloo_ 1.

This may be identical with Golden Drop although Mathieu separates them.

=Watson.= Triflora × Angustifolia varians? =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:21.
1898.

A seedling of Kelsey thought to have been pollinated by Lone Star;
originated with D. H. Watson, Brenham, Texas; introduced by W. A. Yates
in 1897. Tree vigorous, open; fruit large, pointed, red when fully ripe;
flesh yellow, juicy, melting; stone nearly free, small.

=Watts.= Species? =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 166. 1885.

Mentioned as grown by Dr. D. S. Watts of Madison County, Mississippi.

=Waugh.= Triflora × Hortulana. =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:273. 1901.
=2.= _Rural N. Y._ =61=:658. 1902. =3.= _Ibid._ =65=:730. 1906.

Grown by J. W. Kerr, Denton, Maryland, from seed of Chabot fertilized
with Wayland; introduced in 1901. Favorably reported where tested. Tree
vigorous, rapid and shapely in growth; fruit medium to large, roundish
inclining to oblong; cavity shallow; stem slender; dark purplish-red;
dots few and indistinct; flesh yellow, firm, meaty; very good; stone
small, semi-clinging; mid-season or early.

=Wax.= Domestica. =1.= _Cultivator_ =3=:19. 1855. =2.= Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 425. 1889.

Cire 2. _Wax Plum_ 2.

Raised by Elisha Dorr of Albany, New York; thought to be a cross
between Bleeker and Denniston Superb; resembles Bleeker in growth and
productiveness of tree; fruit large, slightly oval; stem very long; deep
yellow overspread with carmine; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, firm, sweet
with a sprightly flavor; clingstone; late.

=Wazata.= Nigra? =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:42. 1892. =2.= Bailey _Ev.
Nat. Fruits_ 190. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 171. 1901.

Found wild in Minnesota; introduced by P. M. Gideon and W. F. Heikes.
Tree upright, very ornamental in bloom; fruit small to medium, round,
dull red; flesh yellow; inferior; clingstone; mid-season to late.

=Webster Gage.= Domestica. =1.= Watkins _Cat._ 1892. =2.= _Guide Prat._
157, 364. 1895. =3.= _Garden_ =56=:344. 1899.

Reine-Claude de Webster 2. _Webster Gage_ 2. Webster’s Gage 1, 3.

Tree bears regularly but sparsely; fruit larger than Reine Claude, a
little more oval in shape, yellowish-green; flesh yellowish, tender,
soft, juicy, rich; mid-season.

=Weeping Blood.= Triflora. =1.= _Hill Side Nursery Sp. Cir._ 1895-6.

From J. L. Normand of Marksville, Louisiana; produces blood-red plums of
good quality; valuable only as an ornamental.

=Weisses oder Grünes Zeiberl.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 454.
1889.

_Weisse Zeiberl_ 1.

Mathieu found reference to this variety in _Wiener Garten-Zeitung_ 290.
1884.

=Welch.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

Grown by H. A. Terry from seed of Hammer; introduced by F. W. Meneray,
Council Bluffs, Iowa. Tree upright, vigorous; fruit large, bright red on
a yellow ground; flesh yellow, rich; clingstone; mid-season.

=Welcome.= Americana. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 100. 1903.

A handsome seedling of De Soto grown by the Central Experimental Farm,
Ottawa, Canada. Tree vigorous and productive; fruit above medium size,
oval, flattened; cavity narrow, shallow; rich yellow, more or less
washed with red; dots very small, yellow, indistinct; bloom thin; skin
moderately thick, tough; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet, pleasant; good;
mid-season.

=Weisse Kaiserin.= Domestica. =1.= Oberdieck _Deut. Obst. Sort._ 418.
1881. =2.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431. 1889.

_Datte Jaune_ 2. _Gelbe Marunke_ 2. _Grosse Gelbe Dattel Pflaume_ 2.
Grosse Gelbe Dattel Zwetsche 2. _Imperial Jaune_ 2. _Prune Datte_ 2.
_Weisse Kaiserin_ 2.

Probably of German origin; tree medium in size, a rapid grower,
productive; fruit medium in size, roundish-oval; suture shallow; stem
short, glabrous; skin not adherent, whitish-yellow, the sunny side dull
red, sometimes dotted with red; dots numerous, fine, yellowish; bloom
thin; flesh whitish-yellow, firm, very juicy, highly flavored; good for
dessert and cooking; clingstone; late.

=Werder’sche Frühzwetsche.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._
454. 1889.

_Stengel Pflaume._

=Wetherell.= Domestica. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =6=:92. 1840.

Col. Wetherell 1.

Originated by Henry Corse, Montreal, Canada, about 1830. Spoken of highly
at the time of its origin; valuable for commercial purposes.

=Wetherill’s Sweet.= Insititia. =1.= Prince _Treat. Hort._ 27. 1828. =2.=
_Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 154. 1831.

A Damson-like plum; small, sweet and delicious; clingstone; early.

=Whatisit.= _Prunus besseyi_ × Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 18. 1899-1900.

Grown by Theodore Williams of Nebraska from seed of _Prunus besseyi_
pollinated by an Americana; introduced by J. W. Kerr. Tree upright and
vigorous, bears early, productive; fruit small, spherical inclining to
oblong, dark purplish-red.

=Wheat.= Insititia. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.= Rea
_Flora_ 209. 1676. =3.= Ray _Hist. Plant._ =2=:1529. 1688. =4.= _Lond.
Hort. Soc. Cat._ 154. 1831. =5.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._ 293,
383. 1846. =6.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 913. 1869. =7.= Hogg _Fruit Man._
730. 1884.

English Wheat 6. _Great Whitton_ 4. _Nutmeg_ 2. _Nutmeg_ 4, 5, 6. Red
Wheate 1. Wheaten 3. _Wheaten_ 4, 5. _Whitton_ 4, 5. Wheat Plum 5. _Wheat
Plum_ 6. _Wheaton_ 6. _Whitlow_ 6.

During the Seventeenth Century this name was applied to all Insititia
plums and is still so used in parts of Europe.

=Whitaker.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:51, 86. 1892. =2.=
_Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 74. 1895. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 190. 1901. =4.=
_Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 212. 1904.

Whitacre 4.

Whitaker is a seedling of Wild Goose raised and introduced by J. T.
Whitaker of Tyler, Texas. Fruit of medium size, oval; cavity shallow;
suture a line; skin thin; bright red; bloom thin; dots many, distinct;
flesh yellow, sweet; quality fair; stone small, long-oval, pointed, flat,
clinging; mid-season. Listed in the catalog of the American Pomological
Society since 1899.

=Whitby.= Species? =1.= _Can. Hort._ =18=:350. 1895.

A seedling exhibited at the Toronto Industrial Fair in 1895 by the
originator, J. K. Gordon, Whitby, Canada.

=White Corn.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 154. 1831.

=White Diaper.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 952. 1869.

_Diapre Blanc_ 1. _Diaprée Blanche_ 1.

This variety seems to have been known only by Downing who says it is a
small, round plum with a whitish-green skin covered with bloom; flesh
rather firm, pale yellow, sweet; good; mid-season.

=White Honey Damson.= Insititia. =1.= Wild Bros. _Cat._ 1892.

A sweet yellow Damson.

=White Muscle.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629.

_White Mussell_ 1.

A strain of the Muscle plum differing from it only in its greenish-white
color.

=White Otschakoff.= Domestica. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 61. 1887. =2.=
Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 18. 1889.

_Bielaya Otschakorskaya_ 1.

One of the numerous varieties imported from East Europe by the Iowa
Agricultural College about 1882. At one time recommended for the prairie
states by Professor Budd.

=White Pear.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.=
Langley _Pomona_ 96, 97. 1729. =3.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 154. 1831.
=4.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:104. 1831.

Late White Pear 1.

A variety of ancient and unknown origin. Fruit medium in size, obovate;
flesh adhering to the stone.

=White Peascod.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.=
Rea _Flora_ 208. 1676.

Peascod Plum 2. White Pescod 1.

Mentioned by the early writers; similar to the Green and Red Peascod.

=White Prune.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 228. 1909.

Grown by H. A. Terry, Crescent, Iowa; not yet introduced. Fruit
long-oval, yellow, partly over-spread with red; bloom thick, conspicuous;
skin thick, tough, acrid; flesh very firm, meaty, sweetish; good;
freestone.

=White Queen.= Domestica. =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ =7=:95, Pl. 1859. =2.=
Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:101, fig. 1866-73. =3.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 721. 1884.
=4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 454. 1889. =5.= _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =177=:42, 43.
1899.

_Neue Weisse Kaiserin_ 4. Prune Reine Blanche 1. Reine Blanche 2, 3.
_Reine Blanche_ 2, 4. _Reine Blanche de Galopin_ 4. _Weisse Königin_ 2.
Weisse Königin 4.

Raised by M. Galopin, a nurseryman of Liege, Belgium, about 1844;
introduced into America by the United States Department of Agriculture
about 1890. Tree vigorous, upright; fruit medium in size, roundish-ovate,
flattened at the ends, yellowish-white, sometimes tinged with red; suture
shallow; cavity shallow, wide; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, aromatic;
good; stone small, oval, clinging; late.

=White Sweet Damson.= Insititia. =1.= _Mag. Hort._ =6=:123. 1840.

Originated as a seedling in Essex County, New York, sometime previous to
1840.

=White Wheat.= Insititia. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629. =2.=
Knoop _Fructologie_ =2=:63. 1771.

Spilling Jaune-simple 2. White Wheate 1.

A yellow variety of the Wheat plum of Europe. Fruit small, oval, yellow;
fair quality.

=White Virginal.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:73. 1831. =2.=
Poiteau _Pom. Franc._ 1. 1846. =3.= _U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt._ 306. 1854.
=4.= Bridgeman _Gard. Ass’t_ 130. 1857. =5.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:129.
1866-73. =6.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 454. 1889. =7.= _Guide Prat._ 158, 367.
1895.

_Altesse Blanche?_ 6, 7. _Double Beurre Witte?_ 6, 7. _Peach_ 3.
_Précoce_ 7. _Prune Précoce?_ 6. _Prune Virginale_ 2. _Virginal à gros
fruit blanc_ 1. _Virginal blanc_ 1. Virginale 4. _Virginale à Fruit
Blanc_ 6, 7. _Virginale à gros fruit blanc_ 5, 6, 7. _Virginal Blanche_
6. Virginale blanche 3, 5, 7. _Virgin_ 6. _White Virginal_ 4. _White
Virginale_ 6. Weisse Jungfernpflaume 6. _Weisse Jungfernpflaume_ 5, 7.

A variety confused by Downing with the Red Virginal. Fruit medium in
size, roundish-oblate; suture a line; greenish-yellow; bloom heavy;
flesh pale greenish, juicy, melting, sweet, pleasant; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Whyte.= Nigra. =1.= _Can. Exp. Farm. Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:57. 1900. =2.=
_Ibid._ =43=:39. 1903.

Whyte’s Red Seedling 1.

Grown by R. B. Whyte, Ottawa, Canada; under test at the Central
Experimental Farm, under the name “Whyte R. B., No. 3.” Fruit medium in
size, roundish; cavity narrow; suture a line; apex rounded; deep red;
dots and bloom lacking; skin thin, tender; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet;
good; stone long, semi-clinging; mid-season.

=Whitley.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 731. 1884.

Whitley’s 1.

Fruit below medium size, round; suture faint; stem on a slight elevation,
of medium length, slender; red with yellow dots, darker on the side next
the sun; flesh yellow with white veins, juicy, sweet and well flavored;
clingstone; late.

=Wier.= Americana. =1.= _Am. Gard._ =13=:460. 1892. =2.= _Cornell Sta.
Bul._ =38=:45, 86. 1892. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:63. 1897.

Wier Large Red 1. Wier’s Large Red 2, 3.

Originated by D. B. Wier of Illinois; resembles Miner, but is no better
than that variety. Fruit large, round; skin thin, red; flesh yellow,
moderately firm; fair to good; clingstone.

=Wier No. 50.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._
=63=:63. 1897.

Wier’s No. 50, 1, 2.

From D. B. Wier of Illinois. Tree vigorous, healthy, productive, bears
annually; fruit large, round, dark red over yellow; good; clingstone;
mid-season.

=Wilde.= Domestica. =1.= _Horticulturist_ =7=:402. 1852. =2.= Downing
_Fr. Trees Am._ 953. 1869.

Wilde’s 1.

Raised by a Mr. Comack from a stone brought from Italy by R. H. Wilde.
Tree productive; fruit medium to large, oval-oblong, greenish-yellow;
flesh yellowish-green, firm, dry, sweet; clingstone; early.

=Wilder.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:78. 1892. =2.= Terry
_Cat._ 1899. =3.= _Ala. Coll. Sta. Bul._ =112=:178. 1900. =4.= Waugh
_Plum Cult._ 175. 1901.

Col. Wilder 1, 2. _Colonel Wilder_ 4. President Wilder 3.

Wilder was grown from seed of Wild Goose in 1885 by H. A. Terry,
Crescent, Iowa. Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture a line; skin
firm, dark red; bloom thin; dots distinct; flesh yellow, juicy, sweet;
quality good; stone large, oval, clinging; mid-season.

=Wild Goose Improved.= Munsoniana. =1.= Stark _Cat._ 29. 1910.

An improved strain of Wild Goose introduced by Stark Brothers, Louisiana,
Missouri, in 1910.

=Wildrose.= Americana. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ =134.= 1887. =2.=
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:45, 86. 1892. =3.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:64.
1897.

A wild seedling found in Minnesota; introduced in 1880 by A. W. Sias,
Rochester, Minnesota. Fruit large, round, yellow blushed with red; flesh
firm; clingstone; early to mid-season.

=Wilkinson.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 400. 1857.

Tree vigorous; branches smooth, rather slender; fruit of medium size,
oval, slightly necked; skin reddish-purple; bloom thick; stalk medium,
set in a small cavity; flesh dark yellow, firm, sweet, not rich;
semi-clinging; late.

=Willamette.= Domestica.

For a discussion of this plum see the Pacific.

=Williams.= Nigra? =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 1894. =2.= _Ibid._ 15. 1897. =3.=
_Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:64. 1897.

Tree vigorous, healthy, moderately productive; fruit large, oblong,
pointed, red; clingstone; early.

=Wilmeth Late.= Species? =1.= _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:490. 1894.

Noticed in the preceding reference as on trial.

=Wilson.= Americana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:64. 1897.

Noted in the preceding reference as a very early fine plum.

=Wine Plum.= Domestica. =1.= Coxe _Cult. Fr. Trees_ 237. 1817. =2.=
Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:101. 1832.

Much like the Yellow Egg in appearance but smaller, oblong, pale green;
stem long; flesh rich, juicy and well flavored; early.

=Winesour.= Insititia. =1.= Forsyth _Treat. Fr. Trees_ 21. 1803. =2.=
Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:101. 1832. =3.= Floy-Lindley _Guide Orch. Gard._
294, 383. 1846. =4.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:17. 1873. =5.= Mathieu _Nom.
Pom._ 453. 1889. =6.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 367. 1895.

_Rotherham_ 3, 5, 6. _Sauere Weinpflaume_ 4. _Sauere Wein Pflaume Von
Yorkshire_ 5, 6. _Sour Wine Plum of Yorkshire_ 5, 6. _Vineuse acidule_
4, 5. Vineuse-Acidule 6. _Vinisour_ 6. Weinsauerliche Pflaume 5.
Weinsauerliche Zwetsche 4, 6. _Winesour_ 6. _Winesour Plum_ 5. _Yorkshire
Winesour_ 5, 6.

An old English variety from Rotherham in Yorkshire, where it is highly
esteemed for making preserves. Fruit of the Damson type, small,
oval; stem one-half inch long; dark purple; dots dark colored; flesh
greenish-yellow, sometimes tinged with red towards the stone, sour; stone
long, slender, pointed, clinging; late.

=Winnebago.= Americana. =1.= _Ia. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 286. 1887. =2.= _Wis.
Sta. Bul._ =63=:64. 1897. =3.= _Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:47. 1898.

From Minnesota; tree vigorous, rigid and thorny, moderately productive;
fruit medium in size, round, irregular; stem long, slender; cavity deep;
yellow overspread with deep red; skin thin; flesh yellowish, soft, of
inferior flavor; stone elliptical, somewhat oblique, rather flat, rounded
at both ends, clinging; mid-season.

=Winter Creke.= Domestica. =1.= Parkinson _Par. Ter._ 576. 1629.

Noted by Parkinson as very late.

=Winter Damson.= Insititia. =1.= _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 146. 1831. =2.=
Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:89. 1832. =3.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 297. 1845.
=4.= Hooper _W. Fr. Book_ 244. 1857. =5.= Mas _Pom. Gen._ =2=:145. 1873.

_Black Damson_ 3. _Blue Damson_ 2. _Blue Damascene_ 2. _Common Blue
Damson_ 2. _Common Damson_ 3. Damas d’Hiver 5. _Damson_ 2. Damson 2, 3.
Damson Winter 4. _Early Damson_ 3. _Late Damson_ 2. Late Purple Damson 2.
_Purple Damson_ 3. _Purple Winter Damson_ 2. _Winter Damson_ 2, 5.

Mas thought that this variety originated in America, but since it was
first noted in England it is probably an importation to the New World
from that country. Downing distinguished it from the common Damson by its
extreme lateness. Tree medium in size; fruit roundish, small; suture a
line; purplish-black; bloom thick; flesh greenish-yellow, juicy, acid,
with a slight astringency; good for preserving; clingstone.

=Wiseman.= Domestica. Mentioned in Wild Bros. _Cat._ 1908.

Wiseman’s Prune.

=Wohanka.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ 108. 1908.

A hybrid between De Soto and Red June grown by Hansen of the South Dakota
Experiment Station who considers it worthy of trial.

=Wolf and Japan.= Triflora × Americana mollis. =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc.
Rpt._ 424. 1905.

Listed with a number of plums which were tested by H. T. Thompson,
Marengo, Illinois.

=Wolf Clingstone.= Americana mollis. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:18. 1901.
=2.= _S. Dak. Sta. Bul._ =93=:13. 1905.

Clingstone Wolf. Wolf Cling 1.

Propagated and sent out in many cases as the true Wolf which it much
resembles except that it is darker in color and is a clingstone. It seems
to be more resistant to diseases and insects than Wolf.

=Woolston.= Domestica. =1.= McIntosh _Bk. Gard._ =2=:53. 1855. =2.=
_Horticulturist_ =13=:168. 1858. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:153, fig. 77.
1866-73. =4.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 454. 1889. =5.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._
433. 1905.

Reine-Claude de Woolston 5. Reine-Claude Noire de Woolston 3. _Woolston
Black_ 4. Woolston Black Gage 1. Woolston Gage 2. _Woolston’s Black Gage_
3, 4. Woolston’s Violette Reine-Claude 4.

Raised by a Mr. Dowling of Southampton, England. Tree vigorous,
productive; fruit medium in size, roundish, purplish-black; suture not
pronounced; cavity deep and wide; stem medium in length, slender; flesh
yellow, juicy, sweet, sugary, tender, aromatic; very good; freestone;
mid-season.

=Wooster.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:65. 1897.

Mentioned in the preceding reference as not being hardy in Minnesota.

=Wooten.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:65. 1892. =2.= Thomas
_Am. Fruit Cult._ 492. 1897. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 191. 1901.

Wootton 2.

Wooten was found growing wild in Burnet County, Texas, in 1876, by F. T.
Ramsey; introduced by A. N. Ramsey & Son. Fruit oval; cavity shallow;
suture a line; skin thin; bright red; bloom thin; flesh yellow; quality
good; stone large, clinging; mid-season.

=Worth.= Americana. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 7. 1902-3.

Originated by Theodore Williams of Nebraska; named and introduced by J.
W. Kerr in 1902. Tree vigorous, healthy and productive; fruit large,
round-oblong, purplish-red on a greenish-yellow ground; semi-clinging;
mid-season.

=Wragg.= Americana. =1.= Meneray _Cat._

A seedling of Hawkeye grown by H. A. Terry; introduced by F. W. Meneray,
Council Bluffs, Iowa. Tree vigorous, healthy, productive; fruit very
large, yellow blotched with dark red; flesh yellow, firm, rich; good;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Wragg Freestone.= Species? =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =87=:18. 1901.

Received by the Wisconsin Experiment Station from Edson Gaylord, Nora
Springs, Iowa. Fruit medium to small, roundish, dark purplish-red with
numerous elongated yellowish markings; bloom heavy; stem long, slender;
skin tender, not harsh; flesh greenish-yellow, crisp, very rich but harsh
near the center; stone round, grooved, semi-clinging.

=Wunder von New York.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 454.
1889.

_Merville de New York._

=Wyandotte.= Species? =1.= _Mich. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 290. 1889.

Professor Budd of Iowa mentioned this plum as hardy and as bearing
continuously.

=Wyant and Japan.= Triflora × Americana. =1.= _Ill. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 420.
1905.

Mentioned in a list of varieties under test by H. T. Thompson, Marengo,
Illinois. Said to be a hybrid seedling; fruit light red; fair quality;
freestone; mid-season.

=Wyckoff.= Munsoniana. =1.= _Linn County Nur. Cat._

Wyckoff was found growing wild along the Cedar River, Iowa, by a Mr.
Wyckoff; introduced by Snyder Brothers, Center Point, Iowa.

=Wyedale.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 732. 1884. =2.= _Garden_
=58=:395. 1900. =3.= Thompson _Gard. Ass’t_ =4=:159. 1901.

From Yorkshire, England; much grown in the northern parts of England.
Tree very productive, strong and upright in growth; fruit small, oval;
cavity small; dark purple, almost black; flesh greenish-yellow, brisk,
juicy, agreeably flavored; clingstone; late.

=Wyzerka.= Domestica. =1.= _Kan. Sta. Bul._ =73=:191. 1897. =2.= _Ibid._
=101=:121, Pl. 6 fig. 1. 1901. =3.= Budd-Hansen _Am. Hort. Man._ 328.
1903.

Wiezerka 1, 2.

Wyzerka is one of the numerous Russian varieties imported by J. L. Budd
of the Iowa Experiment Station. There seems to have been some confusion
in the distribution of this plum, for Budd and Hansen, in reference
three, describe Wyzerka as a large, oval, yellow plum with a fine
peach-like flavor; the variety sent to this Station under this name
bears a small, purplish-black, Damson-like fruit, long-oval in form,
cavity shallow; suture a line; skin thin; bloom very heavy; flesh yellow,
juicy, slightly fibrous, sweet, mild; flavor good; stone oval, small,
free; mid-season.

=Yates.= Triflora × Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =67=:22.
1898. =2.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:275. 1901.

From seed of Kelsey thought to have been pollinated with Lone Star;
originated with D. H. Watson, Brenham, Texas; introduced by W. A. Yates,
1897. Tree thrifty, healthy; fruit large, roundish, red when fully ripe;
clingstone; mid-season.

=Yellow Americana.= Species? Letter from Kerr.

Originated by Theodore Williams, Benson, Nebraska.

=Yellow Egg.= Species? =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:66. 1897.

Goff mentions a variety under this name which differs from the older
plum of the same name. Tree of weeping habit, productive; fruit long;
freestone.

=Yellow, 43 Fischer.= Domestica. =1.= Bailey _Ann. Hort._ 18. 1889.

Introduced into this country from Russia by Professor J. L. Budd of Ames,
Iowa.

=Yellow Impératrice.= Domestica. =1.= _Ann. Pom. Belge_ 55, Pl. 1853.
=2.= _Pom. France_ =7=: No. 11. 1871. =3.= Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:113, fig.
1866-73. =4.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 732. 1884. =5.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 431.
1889. =6.= _Cat. Cong. Pom. France_ 461. 1906.

_Altesse Blanche_ 4, 5. _D’Altesse Blanche_ 6. _De Monsieur Jaune_ 3.
Gelbe Herrn Pflaume 5. _Impératrice Jaune_ 3, ?5. Jaune de Monsieur
2. _Jaune de Monsieur_ 5, 6. _Monsieur à Fruits Jaune_ 4, 5. Monsieur
à Fruits Jaunes 3. _Monsieur à Fruits Jaunes_ 5, 6. Monsieur Jaune
6. _Prune de Monsieur Jaune_ 5. Prune de Monsieur Jaune 1. _Prune de
Monsieur, Varietè Jaune_ 5. _Prune Monsieur Jaune_ 2. _Prune d’Altesse
Blanche_ 2, 5. _Virginale Blanche_ 4, ?5. _Yellow Impératrice_ ?3, 5.

M. Jacquin, nurseryman of Paris, France, obtained this plum from seed
of a cross between the Orleans and the Reine Claude planted about 1820;
brought to notice in 1845. Mas considered Hogg’s and Downing’s Yellow
Impératrice as different from the French variety. Tree medium in vigor;
fruit medium in size, usually roundish-oval; suture broad; halves
unequal; skin not adhering, golden-yellow, dotted and streaked with
carmine-red; flesh yellow, juicy, very sweet and aromatic; freestone;
mid-season.

=Yellow Imperial.= Domestica. =1.= Prince _Pom. Man._ =2=:59. 1832.

_Imperial jaune_ 1. Impériale jaune 1.

Described by Prince as distinct from Yellow Egg which it much resembles
but differing in that it is somewhat smaller, about two weeks earlier and
slightly more acid.

=Yellow Jack.= Domestica. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._ 154. 1831.

=Yellow Jerusalem.= Domestica. =1.= Hogg _Fruit Man._ 732. 1884. =2.=
Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 436. 1889.

Jahns Gelbe Jerusalems Pflaume 2. _Jahn’s Jerusalems Pflaume_ 2.
_Jerusalem Jaune_ 1, 2. _Jahn’s Gelbe Jerusalems-pflaume_ 1. _Yellow
Jerusalem_ 2.

Fruit of medium size, roundish-oval; suture a line; cavity deep; deep
yellow with crimson specks next the sun; flesh yellow, with white veins,
tender, juicy, brisk, sweet, very good; clingstone; mid-season.

=Yellow Magnum Bonum.= Domestica. =1.= _Jour. Hort._ N. S. =17=:228. 1869.

According to the preceding reference this variety is distinct from the
Yellow Egg (White Magnum Bonum). Fruit medium in size, oval, dull yellow
sprinkled with red dots; rich; clingstone; young shoots smooth.

=Yellow Nagate.= Triflora. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 106. 1891. =2.=
_Can. Exp. Farm Bul._ 2nd Ser. =3=:57. 1900.

A little known Triflora very closely resembling if not identical with
some of the standard yellow Trifloras.

=Yellow Oregon.= Hortulana. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:66. 1897. =2.=
_Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =11=:287. 1898.

Described by Waugh from specimens received by him from B. A. Matthews,
Iowa. Fruit small, nearly spherical; suture a faint line; bright
golden-yellow; dots many, whitish; skin thick and strong; flesh yellow
and not very firm; quality medium; stone large, smooth, clinging;
inferior in size and quality to Captain or Cumberland.

=Yellow Panhandle.= Angustifolia watsoni. =1.= _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:66.
1897. =2.= Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fruits_ 222, 223. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum
Cult._ 234. 1901. =4.= _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =67=:285. 1904.

A variety from the Panhandle of Texas; introduced by F. T. Ramsey
of Austin, Texas. Tree forms a close symmetrical head; fruit small,
roundish-oblong, yellow overspread with clear bright red; dots few,
indistinct; skin tough; flesh yellow, hard; quality poor; stone medium,
oval, turgid, clinging.

=Yellow Roman Bullace.= Insititia. Mentioned in _Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat._
144. 1831.

=Yellow Sweet.= Americana. =1.= _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:46. 1892. =2.=
_Colo. Sta. Bul._ =50=:47. 1898. =3.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 168. 1901.

Thought to have originated in Minnesota. Tree small; fruit large, round
inclining to oblong; suture distinct; stem short and stout; yellow more
or less mottled and shaded with red; bloom thin; flesh firm, juicy, rich,
sweet; good; stone round, flat, clinging.

=Yellow Transparent.= Angustifolia varians. =1.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._
162. 1881. =2.= _Am. Pom. Soc. Cat._ 25. 1897. =3.= _Ohio Sta. Bul._
=113=:156. 1899. =4.= Waugh _Plum Cult._ 200. 1901.

_Transparent_ 4 incor. _Transparent Yellow_ 2.

Selected from a seedling orchard of two thousand trees planted near
Denison, Texas, by J. L. Freeman. Tree vigorous, forming a handsome top,
productive; fruit medium in size, oblong, bright yellow; skin thin and
tough, reported to crack badly in some localities; flesh soft and watery,
sweet and good; clingstone; early.

=Yellow Wildgoose.= Munsoniana? =1.= Van Lindley _Cat._ 42. 1899.

Said to have been introduced by R. Bates of Jackson, South Carolina.
Fruit large, equal in size to Wild Goose with better quality; ripens at
the same time.

=Yellow Yosemite.= Species? =1.= _Gard. Mon._ =20=:176. 1878. =2.= _Mich.
Sta. Bul._ =118=:52, 55. 1895.

Yosemite 1. Yosemite Yellow 2.

Yellow Yosemite came from the “Rocky Mountains” about 1870 with the
Purple Yosemite; introduced by W. S. Carpenter, Rye, New York. Fruit
roundish; suture a line; skin thick, tough, yellow, with reddish tinge;
flesh yellow, sweet, tender; stone roundish-ovate, clinging; mid-season.

=Yohe.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 954. 1869.

Yohes Eagle 1.

Noticed by Downing who says it is an accidental seedling in the garden of
Caleb Yohe, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

=York State Prune.= Domestica. =1.= Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 504, 505.
1897. =2.= Greene _Cat._ 1897. =3.= Sweet _Cat._ 13. 1897. =4.= _W. N. Y.
Hort. Soc. Rpt._ =44=:92. 1899.

Large German Prune 3. _York State Prune_ 3.

A seedling grown near Dansville, New York. As tested at this Station and
by many fruit-growers it is identical with Italian Prune.

=Young.= Domestica. =1.= Downing _Fr. Trees Am._ 955. 1869.

_Young’s Seedling_ 1.

From Pennsylvania. Tree vigorous; fruit medium in size, roundish-oval,
deep reddish-purple; flesh yellow, sweet; good; freestone; mid-season.

=Yukon.= Nigra? =1.= _Can. Exp. Farms Rpt._ 426. 1900.

A seedling grown at Indian Head Experimental Farm, Canada. Fruit of
medium size, red; skin thick; good; early.

=Yuteca.= Species? =1.= _Cir. S. Dak. Exp. Sta._ 1910.

_South Dakota No. 8_ 1.

A very early ripening seedling of some native plum grown by N. E. Hansen
of the South Dakota Experiment Station; sent out in 1907.

=Zahlbruckner Damascene.= Species? Mentioned in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 455.
1889.

_Zahlbruckner’s Violette Damascene._

=Zekanta.= Species? =1.= _Cir. S. Dak. Exp. Sta._ 1910.

A large yellow seedling of some native plum grown and introduced by N. E.
Hansen of the South Dakota Experiment Station.

=Zucchetta Gialla.= Species? Listed in Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 455. 1889.

=Zulu.= Species? =1.= _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:230. 1899.

Grown by Luther Burbank who says in regard to its parentage “It is a
mystery, being three or four generations from innumerable crosses, and
resembles no other known species or variety.” Fruit medium in size, round
or somewhat oblate; suture shallow; cavity broad, open; stem short,
strong; very dark dull red, almost black; dots many, minute, whitish;
bloom thick; skin thin and tender; flesh firm, juicy, red, rich and
sweet; quality good to best; stone medium large, rounded, only slightly
flattened, clinging.

=Zuzac.= Domestica. =1.= Kerr _Cat._ 25. 1897.

Similar in appearance to Townsend.

=Zwergpflaume.= Domestica. =1.= Kraft _Pom. Aust._ =2=:35, Tab. 183 fig.
2. 1796.

Die kleine Zwergpflaume 1. _Prune nain_ 1.

Tree low; leaves lance-shaped, short-stemmed; flowers small, fragrant;
petals long, not widely opened; fruit hanging on a long stem, the size
and appearance of a cherry except that it is more elongated; pleasant;
sometimes sourish and flat.

=Zwetsche Professor Wittmack.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 455.
1889.

Referenced by Mathieu from _Garten-flora_ 142. 1888.

=Zwetsche Von der Worms.= Species? =1.= Mathieu _Nom. Pom._ 455. 1889.
=2.= _Guide Prat._ 163, 368. 1895.

_Grosse Blaue Zwetsche Von der Worms_ 1, 2. _Quetsche Grosse Blaue de la
Worms_ 1, 2.

Tree vigorous, productive; fruit large, oval, bluish-black; flesh
greenish-yellow, juicy, firm; mid-season.




BIBLIOGRAPHY AND REFERENCES, WITH ABBREVIATIONS USED.


In this list it is hoped that there will be found all horticultural books
in America dealing with the plum. No attempt has been made to include
botanical works. Only such European books are recorded as were found
useful in preparing the volume. All the agricultural and horticultural
periodicals to which references are to be found in the preceding pages
are given, but no more. The reports and bulletins of experiment stations
and horticultural societies are not included since the abbreviations
used for such publications are readily recognized. The date of copyright
has been preferred to that of publication though sometimes it has been
necessary to use the latter, as when there were several editions from the
same copyright.


Abercrombie, Gard. Ass’t

    The Gardeners Daily Assistant. By John Abercrombie. London:
    1786.

Am. Gard.

    American Gardening. New York: 1892-1904. (Before its union with
    Popular Gardening in 1892, was known as American Garden. Both
    Popular Gardening and American Garden resulted from the union
    or absorption of several other horticultural periodicals.)

Am. Gard. Mag.

    American Gardener’s Magazine. See Mag. Hort.

Am. Hort. An.

    American Horticultural Annual. A Year Book of Horticultural
    Progress, etc., under the general editorial care of Dr. George
    Thurber. New York: 1867-1871.

Am. Jour. Hort.

    The American Journal of Horticulture and Florist’s Companion.
    Boston: 1867-1869. Continued as Tilton’s Journal of
    Horticulture and Floral Magazine, 1869-1871.

Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt.

    American Pomological Society Report. Issued usually biennially
    from 1852 to date.

Ann. Hort.

    Annals of Horticulture and yearbook of information on practical
    gardening. London: 1846-50. 5 vols.

Ann. Pom. Belge

    Annales de Pomologie Belge et Étrangère; publiées par la
    Commission royale de Pomologie, instituée par S. M. le Roi des
    Belges. 8 vols. Bruxelles: 1853-1860.


Bailey, Ann. Hort.

    Annals of Horticulture in North America. A record of
    Horticultural Progress, appearing annually from 1889-1893. By
    L. H. Bailey. New York.

Bailey, Cyc. Hort.

    Cyclopedia of American Horticulture. By L. H. Bailey, assisted
    by Wilhelm Miller. In Four Volumes. New York: 1900.

Bailey, Ev. Nat. Fruits

    A sketch of the Evolution of Our Native Fruits. By L. H.
    Bailey. New York: 1898.

Bailey, Sur. Unlike

    The Survival of The Unlike. By L. H. Bailey. New York: 1906.

Baltet, Cult. Fr.

    Traité de la Culture Fruitière Commerciale et Bourgeoise. Par
    Charles Baltet. Quatrième Édition. Paris: 1908.

Barry, Fr. Garden

    The Fruit Garden. By P. Barry. New York: 1851. Revised edition,
    1883.

Bartrum, Pears & Plums

    The Book of Pears and Plums. By E. Bartrum. London and
    New York: 1903. Being Volume XI of Handbooks of Practical
    Gardening, edited by Harry Roberts.

Bradley, Gard.

    New Improvements of Planting and Gardening, both Philosophical
    and Practical. In three parts. By Richard Bradley. Seventh
    edition, London: 1739.

Bridgeman, Gard. Ass’t

    The Young Gardener’s Assistant. Three parts. By Thomas
    Bridgeman. New York: 1857.

Brookshaw, Pom. Brit.

    Pomona Brittanica or a collection of the Most Esteemed Fruits
    at Present cultivated in Great Britain. By George Brookshaw.
    London: 1817.

Budd-Hansen, Am. Hort. Man.

    American Horticultural Manual, etc. By J. L. Budd and N. E.
    Hansen. In 2 vols; vol. 2. New York and London: 1903.


Cal. Fr. Grower

    The California Fruit-Grower. San Francisco: 1888 to date.

Can. Hort.

    Canadian Horticulturist. Toronto: 1878 to date.

Cat. Cong. Pom. France

    Société Pomologique de France. Catalogue descriptif des fruits
    adoptés par le Congrès pomologique. Lyon: 1887. Ibid.: 1906.

Cole, Am. Fr. Book

    The American Fruit Book. By S. W. Cole. Boston: 1849.

Country Gent.

    Country Gentleman. Albany: 1853-1865. The Cultivator and
    Country Gentleman. Albany: 1866-1897. The Country Gentleman.
    Albany: 1898 to date.

Coxe, Cult. Fr. Trees

    A View of the Cultivation of Fruit Trees. By William Coxe.
    Philadelphia: 1817.

Cultivator

    Albany: 1834-1865. In 1866 united with the Country Gentleman.


Decaisne & Naudin, Man. Am. des Jard.

    Manuel de L’Amateur des Jardins. By Jh. Decaisne and Ch.
    Naudin. Tome quatrième. Paris.

De Candolle, Or. Cult. Plants

    Origin of Cultivated Plants. By Alphonse De Candolle. Geneva
    [Switzerland]: 1882. New York: 1885.

Downing, Fr. Trees. Am.

    The Fruits and Fruit Trees of America. By A. J. Downing. New
    York and London: 1845. Second edition, same text, with colored
    plates, 1847. First revision, by Charles Downing. New York:
    1857. Second revision, by Charles Downing. New York: 1869.
    First appendix, 1872. Second appendix, 1876. Third appendix,
    1881.

Duhamel, Trait. Arb. Fr.

    Traité des Arbres Fruitiers. Par M. Duhamel du Monceau. Tomes
    1 et 2. Paris: 1768. Edition publie en 1782 en trois tomes.
    Nouvelle Edition en six tomes, 1807-1835.


Elliott, Fr. Book

    Elliott’s Fruit Book: or the American Fruit-Growers’ Guide. By
    F. R. Elliott. New York: 1854. Revised edition, 1859.


Fish, Hardy-Fr. Bk.

    The Hardy-Fruit Book. By D. T. Fish. Two volumes. London:
    probably 1882.

Flor. & Pom.

    The Florist and Pomologist. A Pictorial Monthly Magazine of
    Flowers, Fruits and General Horticulture. Conducted at first by
    Robert Hogg and John Spencer, later by Thomas Moore and William
    Paul. London: 1862-84.

Floy-Lindley, Guide Orch. Gard.

    A Guide to the Orchard and Fruit Garden. By George Lindley;
    edited by John Lindley. American edition by Michael Floy. New
    York: 1833. New edition with an appendix, 1846.

Forsyth, Treat. Fr. Trees

    A Treatise on the Culture and Management of Fruit Trees. By
    William Forsyth. London: 1802. Same with Introduction and
    Notes, by William Cobbett. Albany: 1803. Seventh edition
    [English] London: 1824.


Gallesio, Pom. Ital.

    Pomona Italiana Ossia Trattato Degli Alberi Fruttiferi Di
    Giorgio Gallesio. Tomo Secondo. Pisa: 1839. Volume 2 includes
    two large books, Testo 2, which contains the fruit descriptions
    and Tavole 2, which contains the plates.

Gard. and For.

    Garden and Forest. Charles S. Sargent, editor. New York:
    1888-1897.

Gard. Chron.

    Gardeners’ Chronicle, etc. London: 1841 to date.

Garden

    Garden. London: 1872 to date.

Gardening

    Gardening. Chicago: 1893 to date.

Gard. Mon.

    Gardener’s Monthly, etc. Thomas Meehan, editor. Philadelphia:
    1859-1887.

Gard. World

    Gardening World, illustrated. A weekly paper exclusively
    devoted to all the branches of practical gardening. London:
    1884-1909. In Vol. 20, 1903, the title was changed to The
    Gardening World, an illustrated journal for country gentlemen
    and professional gardeners. The editor from May, 1895, has been
    John Fraser; previously the editor had been Brian Wynne, but in
    the earlier years the editor’s name is not given.

Gaucher, Pom. Prak. Obst.

    Pomologie der Praktischen Obstbaumzüchters. Von N. Gaucher.
    Stuttgart: 1894.

Gen. Farmer

    Genesee Farmer. Edited by Luther Tucker. Rochester: 1831-1839.
    Then consolidated with the Cultivator. Another periodical of
    the same name was published in Rochester from 1845 to 1865.
    Also New Genesee Farmer and Monthly Genesee Farmer.

Gerard, Herball

    The Herball or Generall Historie of Plantes. By John Gerard.
    Enlarged and amended by Thomas Johnson. London: 1636.

Goodrich, N. Fr. Cult.

    The Northern Fruit Culturist, or Farmers’ Guide. By Chauncey
    Goodrich. Burlington, Vt.: 1849.

Guide Prat.

    Guide Pratique de L’Amateur de Fruits. Description et Culture
    des Variétés de Fruits Classées Par Séries de Mérite. Composant
    les Collections Pomologiques de L’Établissement Horticole
    Simon-Louis Frères. A Plantières-lès-Metz. (Lorraine Annexée)
    Deuxième Édition. Revue et Corrigée par les Chefs de Culture de
    L’Établissement. Paris and Nancy: 1895.


Hoffy, N. Am. Pom.

    Hoffy’s North American Pomologist. Edited by William D.
    Brinckle. Book No. 1. Philadelphia: 1860.

Hoffy, Orch. Com.

    Hoffy’s Orchardist’s Companion or Fruits of the United States.
    A quarterly journal. Vol. 1, 1841-2, Vol. 2, 1842-3. Alfred
    Hoffy, Editor and Publisher. Philadelphia.

Hogg, Fruit Man.

    The Fruit Manual. By Robert Hogg. First edition, London: 1860.
    Second edition, 1861. Third edition, 1866. Fourth edition,
    1873. Fifth edition, 1884.

Hooper, W. Fr. Book

    Hooper’s Western Fruit Book. By E. J. Hooper. Cincinnati: 1857.

Horticulturist

    The Horticulturist and Journal of Rural Art and Rural Taste.
    Albany, Philadelphia and New York: 1846-1875. Founded by A. J.
    Downing. Other editors were Barry, Smith, Mead, Williams and
    the Woodwards.

Hovey, Fr. Am.

    The Fruits of America. Two Volumes. C. M. Hovey. Boston: 1851.


Jour. Hort.

    Journal of Horticulture began as: The Cottage Gardener; or
    Amateurs’ and Cottagers’ guide to out-door gardening and spade
    cultivation. London: 1849-1861. 25 vols. (Edited Vols. 1-13
    by G. W. Johnson, vols. 14-25 by G. W. Johnson and R. Hogg.)
    Continued as The Journal of Horticulture, Cottage Gardener and
    Country Gentleman.... New Series. London: 1861-1880. 38 vols.
    (edited by G. W. Johnson and R. Hogg)—continued under the same
    title as ... Third Series. London: 1880-1909. 59 vols. (edited
    by R. Hogg).

Jour. Roy. Hort. Soc.

    Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society. London: 1846 to
    date. Vols. 1-9; 1846-55, bear the title of Journal of the
    Horticultural Society of London.


Kenrick, Am. Orch.

    The New American Orchardist. By Wilham Kenrick. Boston: 1832.
    Second edition revised, 1835. Seventh edition, enlarged and
    improved, with a supplement, 1844.

Knoop, Fructologie

    Part I. Pomologie ou Description Meilleures Sortes de Pommes
    et de Poires. Part II. Fructologie ou Description des Arbres
    Fruitiers. Par Jean Herman Knoop. Amsterdam: 1771.

Koch, Deut. Obst.

    Die Deutschen Obstgeholze. By Karl Koch. Two Parts. Stuttgart:
    1876.

Kraft, Pom. Aust.

    Pomona Austriaca. Abhandlung von dem Obstbaumen. By Johann
    Kraft. Wein: 1792.


Lange, Allgem. Garten.

    Allgemeines Gartenbuch. By Theodore Lange. Two Volumes. Second
    Edition, Leipsic: 1879.

Langley, Pomona

    Pomona; or the Fruit Garden Illustrated. By Batty Langley.
    London: 1729.

Lauche, Deut. Pom.

    Deutsche Pomologie. Von W. Lauche. Berlin: 1882.

Le Bon Jard.

    Le Bon Jardinier. 126th Edition Almanach Horticole, 1882 and
    the 129th Edition, 1884. Paris.

Lond. Hort. Soc. Cat.

    A Catalogue of the Fruits Cultivated in the Garden of the
    Horticultural Society of London. London: 1826. Second edition,
    1831. Third edition, 1842. A supplement was published in 1853.

London, Arb. Frut. Brit.

    Arboretum et Fruticetum Britannicum. By J. C. Loudon. Second
    Edition, Volume 2. London: 1844.

Loudons Enc. Gard.

    An Encyclopedia of Gardening, etc. By J. C. Loudon. New
    edition. London: 1834.

Lucas, Vollst. Hand. Obst.

    Vollständiges Handbuch der Obstkultur. Von Ed. Lucas.
    Stuttgart: First edition, 1880; second edition, 1886; third
    edition, 1893. Third edition edited by Fr. Lucas. 1894.


Mag. Hort.

    Magazine of Horticulture. Boston: 1837-1868. First published
    under name American Gardener’s Magazine, 1835-6. Edited by C.
    M. Hovey with P. B. Hovey, Jr., associate editor during 1835-6.

Manning, Book of Fruits

    Book of Fruits. By Robert Manning. Salem: 1838. Second edition
    with title, New England Fruit Book. Revised by John M. Ives.
    Salem: 1844.

Mas, Le Verger

    Le Verger. Par M. Mas. Tomes 8. Paris: 1866-1873. Tome 6.
    Prunes.

Mas, Pom. Gen.

    Pomologie Générale. Par M. Mas. Tomes 12. Paris: 1872-83. Tome
    2, 1873. Prunes.

Mathieu, Nom. Pom.

    Nomenclator Pomologicus. Von Carl Mathieu. Berlin: 1889.

Miller, Gard. Dict.

    Gardener’s Dictionary. By Philip Miller. London: 1754. Revised
    edition, Volumes I and II. By Thomas Martyn. London: 1807.

Miller, Gard. Kal.

    Gardener’s Kalendar. By Philip Miller. London: 1734.


McIntosh, Bk. Gard.

    The Book of the Garden. By Charles McIntosh. Two Volumes.
    London: 1855.

McMahon, Am. Gard. Cal.

    The American Gardener’s Calendar. By Bernard McMahon.
    Philadelphia: 1806.

Nat. Hist. N. Y.

    Natural History of New York. Part V. Agriculture. By Ebenezer
    Emmons. Vol. III devoted to fruits. Albany: 1851.

Nat. Nur.

    National Nurseryman. Edited by R. T. Olcott and later by John
    Craig. Rochester: 1893 to date.

N. E. Farmer Dict.

    The New England Farmer or Georgical Dictionary. By Samuel
    Deane. Second Edition. Worcester, Mass.: 1797.

Nicholson, Dict. Gard.

    The Illustrated Dictionary of Gardening. By George Nicholson,
    assisted by J. W. H. Trail and J. Garrett. Four volumes,
    London. Supplement to same. By George Nicholson et al. London:
    1900.


Noisette, Man. Comp. Jard.

    Manuel Complet du Jardinier. Par M. Louis Noisette. Paris: 1860.


Oberdieck, Deut. Obst. Sort.

    Deutschlands beste Obst-Sorten. Von. F. G. C. Oberdieck.
    Leipzig: 1881.

Oregon Agric.

    Oregon Agriculturist. Edited by W. E. Williamson. Portland:
    1891 to date.


Parkinson, Par. Ter.

    Paradisi in Sole. Paradisus Terrestris. By John Parkinson.
    London: 1629.

Phillips, Com. Orch.

    The Companion For the Orchard. By Henry Phillips. New Edition.
    London: 1831.

Poiteau, Pom. Franc.

    Pomologie Francaise. Recueil des Plus Beaux Fruits Cultivés en
    France. Par Antoine Poiteau. Tomes 1-4. Paris: 1846.

Pom. France

    Pomologie de la France. Ou Histoire et Description De Tous Les
    Fruits Cultivés En France. Ouvrage Public avec le concours des
    Sociétés d’Agriculture et d’Horticulture Francaises. Tome VII.
    Lyon: 1871.

Pom. Mag.

    Pomological Magazine. Three Volumes. London: 1828-30. This work
    has also been published under the title Pomona Brittanica.

Popular Gard.

    Popular Gardening. An illustrated periodical devoted to
    Horticulture in all its branches. Vol. I, Buffalo: 1886.
    Continued as Popular Gardening and Fruit Growing. An
    illustrated periodical devoted to Horticulture in all its
    branches, Vols. II-VI. Buffalo: 1887-91. All six volumes edited
    by E. A. Long; these consolidated with American Garden and
    continued as American Gardening. New York: 1892-1904.

Prince, Treat. Hort.

    A Short Treatise on Horticulture. By William Prince. New York:
    1828.

Prince, Pom. Man.

    The Pomological Manual, or a Treatise on Fruits. By William
    Robert Prince, aided by William Prince. Second edition. Parts I
    and II. New York: 1832.


Quintinye, Com. Gard.

    The Complete Gard’ner; or Directions for Cultivating and Right
    Ordering of Fruit Gardens and Kitchen Gardens. By Monsieur De
    la Quintinye. Second edition. London: 1699.


Ray, Hist. Plant.

    Historia Plantarum. By John Ray. London: 1688.

Rea, Flora

    Flora: Seu, De Florum Cultura; or A Complete Florilege. By John
    Rea, Gent. London: 1676.

Rec. Hort.

    Woodward’s Record of Horticulture. Edited by A. S. Fuller. (An
    annual.) New York: 1866-1868.

Rev. Hort.

    Revue Horticole. Paris: 1829 to date.

Rural N. Y.

    Rural New Yorker. Rochester and New York: 1850 to date.


Soc. Nat. Hort. France Pom.

    Société Nationale d’Horticulture de France. Section
    Pomologique. Les Meilleurs Fruits au début du XXe Siècle.
    Paris: 1904.

Sou. Cult.

    Southern Cultivator. Augusta, Ga.: 1843.


Thomas, Am. Fruit Cult.

    American Fruit Culturist. By John J. Thomas. First edition,
    Geneva and Auburn, N. Y.: 1846. Edition of 1849, Auburn, N.
    Y. Edition of 1867, 1875-1885, New York. Twentieth edition,
    revised and enlarged by William H. S. Wood. New York: 1897.

Thompson, Gard. Ass’t

    The Gardener’s Assistant. By Robert Thompson. Two volumes.
    London: 1859. Same, revised by William Watson. Six volumes.
    London: 1901.

Traité Prat. Sech. Fruits

    Traité Pratique du Séchage des Fruits et des Légumes. Par J.
    Nanot et L. Tritschler. Paris: 1893.


U. S. D. A. Rpt.

    Reports of the United States Department of Agriculture: 1862 to
    1894.

U. S. D. A. Yearbook

    Reports of the United States Department of Agriculture: 1894 to
    date.

U. S. Pat. Off. Rpt.

    Reports of the Agricultural section of the United States Patent
    Office: 1837 to 1861.


Waugh, Plum Cult.

    Plums and Plum Culture. By F. A. Waugh. New York: 1901.

Wickson, Cal. Fruits

    California Fruits. By Edward J. Wickson. Second Edition. San
    Francisco: 1891. Same, Fourth edition. Los Angeles: 1909.

Willich, Dom. Enc.

    Domestic Encyclopedia or a Dictionary of Facts, etc. By A. F.
    M. Willich. First American edition with additions by James
    Mease. In five volumes. Vol. 4, Philadelphia: 1803.




INDEX.


(Names of varieties in this index, if accepted names, appear in Roman
type; if synonyms, in italics.)


  Abbaye d’Arton, 391

  _Abricot Blanc_, _Blanche_, de France; Abricot ordinaire; _Abricote_;
        _Abricotée_; _Abricotée Blanc_, _Blanche_, _de Tours_,
        _Perdrigon_ (Syns. of Apricot), 148

  _Abricot de Guthrie_ (syn. of Guthrie Apricot), 457

  Abricotée de Braunau, 391

  _Abricotée de Braunau_ (syn. of Abricotée de Braunau), 391

  _Abricotée de Braunau Nouvelle_ (syn. of Liegel Apricot), 484

  Abricotée de Lange, 391

  Abricotée de Liegel (syn. of Liegel Apricot), 484

  _Abricotée de Royer_ (syn. of Royer Aprikosen Pflaume), 535

  Abricotée de Trauttenberg, 391

  _Abricotée de Trauttenberg_ (syn. of Abricotée de Trauttenberg), 391

  _Abricote Hâtif_; _Abricotée Hâtive_, or _Précoce_ (syns. of Early
        Apricot), 437

  _Abricotée Nouvelle de Dörell_ (syn. of Dorell Aprikosenpflaume), 434

  _Abricot_, _Abricote_ or _Abricotée Rouge_ (syns. of Red Apricot), 321

  _Abricotée Rouge de Trauttenberg_ (syn. of Abricotée de
        Trauttenberg), 391

  Abricotée Sageret (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Abricot Princesse, 391

  _Abricot Verd_ or _Vert_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Abundance, 136

  _Abundance_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  Adair, D. L., var. orig. by, 292

  Admirable, 391

  Admiral, 391

  Admiral Rigny or de Rigny (syn. of Rigny), 532

  Admiral Dewey (syn. of Dewey), 432

  Admiral Schley, 391

  Advance, 392

  _Aechte Gelbe Eierpflaume_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _A Fleur Double_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  African, 392

  Agen, 138

  Agen Date or Prune; _Agen Datte_; _Agener Kaiserzwetsche_ or
        _Pflaume_ (syns. of Agen), 138

  Aitken (syn. of Aitkin), 140

  Aitkin, 140

  _Ak Erik_ (syn. of Diel Grosse Weisse Damascene), 432

  Alabama, 392

  Albany Beauty, 392

  Alberta, 393

  _Albert’s Damascene_; _Albertus Damen Pflaume_ (syns. of Yellow Egg),
        386

  _Alderton_ (syn. of Victoria), 363

  _Alderton_ (syn. of Sharp), 340

  _Al Erik_ (syn. of Diel Grosse Weisse Damascene), 432

  Alexander, 393

  _Alexander’s Late_ (syn. of Alexander), 393

  Alhambra, 141

  Alibuchari, 393

  Alice, 393

  Allen, 393

  Allfruit, 393

  Allie, 393

  Aloe, 393

  _Aloise’s Green Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Alois Reine-Claude, 393

  _Alois’ Reine Claude_ (syn. of Alois Reine Claude), 393

  Aloo Bokhara, 393

  Alpha, 393

  Alpha-Americana, 394

  _Altesse_ (syn. of Suisse), 549

  _Altesse Blanche?_ (syn. of White Virginal), 565

  _Altesse Blanche_ (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  _Altesse Double_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  _Altesse du Roi_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Altesse ordinaire_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Althahn’s Rote Reine-Claude_; _Althan’s_ or _Althann’s Reine Claude_
        (syns. of Altham), 141

  Altham, 141

  _Amalia Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  Amaryllis, 394

  Amber, 394

  Amber Primordian, 394

  _Amber Primordian_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Ambre de Provence_ (syn. of Bernsteinzwetsche), 402

  Ambre Tardif, 394

  _Ambrée Tardive_ (syn. of Ambre Tardif), 394

  Amelie Blanche, 394

  Amelie Noire, 394

  Ameliorée, 394

  America, 142

  American, 143

  American Cherry Plum (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _American Damson_ (syn. of Frost Gage), 216

  American Eagle, 144

  American Golden, 394

  American Magnum Bonum, 394

  American Prune, 394

  _American Prune_ (syn. of Dawson), 186

  American Seedling (syn. of American), 143

  American Violet, 394

  American Wheat, 395

  _American Wheat_ (syn. of American Wheat), 395

  _American Yellow Gage_; American Yellow Gage (syns. of Yellow Gage),
        388

  _Amiral de Rigny_ (syn. of Rigny), 532

  Ames, 144

  _Ananas Zwetsche_ (syn. of Petite Quetsche Sucrée), 515

  _Ananas Zwetsche_ (incor.) (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  Ancient City, 395

  Anderson, 395

  _Anderson’s Early Red_ (syn. of Anderson), 395

  Angelina Burdett, 395

  _Anglaise Noire_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Anglesio_ (syn. of Washington), 368

  _Angloise Noire_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  Angouleme, 395

  Anna, 395

  _Anna Lawson_ (syn. of Lawson), 482

  Anna Maria, 395

  _Anna Spaeth_ (syn. of Anna Spath), 395

  Anna Spath, 395

  Annual Bearer, 395

  Apple, 396

  Apple, 146

  Apple Plum (syn. of Apple), 396

  Apricock Plum, Apricocke, _Apricot_, _Apricot Plum_, _Apricot Plum of
        Tours_ (syns. of Apricot), 148

  Apricot, 147

  _Apricot_ (syn. of Duane), 196

  Apricot, 396

  _Apricot Plum_ (syn. of Peach), 309

  _Apricot Plum_ (syn. of Simon), 346

  Apricot Plum (syn. of Red Apricot), 321

  Aprikosenartige Mirabelle, 396

  _Aprikosenartige Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Aprikosenartige Pflaume_ or _Aprikosen Perdrigon_ (syns. of
        Apricot), 148

  Arab, 396

  Arab No. 1 (syn. of Black Prune), 404

  _Arab No. 2_ (syn. of Nicholas), 295

  _Arabische Kirsche_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Arch Duke, 148

  Arctic, 150

  Arctic, 396

  Arkansas, 152

  _Arkansas Lombard_ (syn. of Arkansas), 152

  Arris, John, var. orig. by, 339

  Ashes Seedling, 396

  Ashridge Black, 396

  _Asiatische Kirsche_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Askew’s Golden_ or _Golden Egg_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Askew’s Purple Egg_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Assiniboia, 396

  Aston, 396

  Aston Green Gage, 396

  Atkins, 396

  A-248, 397

  Aubert, 397

  _Aubertiana_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Auburn, 397

  Auchtertyre, 397

  August, 397

  _Auguste Zwetsche_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  Augustine, A. M., var. orig. by, 475

  _August Pflaume_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  _August Red_ (syn. of August), 397

  August Zwetsche, 397

  _August Zwetsche_ (syn. of Wahre Frühzwetsche), 560

  _August Zwetsche_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  Aunt Ann, 397

  _Aunt Ann_ (syn. of Aunt Ann), 397

  Aurora, 397

  _Auserlesene Gelbe Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Yellow Gage), 388

  _Auserlesene Rote Reine-Claude_ or _rothe Reineclaude_ (syn. of Red
        Gage), 527

  Austrian Quetsche, 397

  Automne de Schamali (syn. of Schamal), 540

  _Autriche Violette_ (Pr. d.) (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Autumn Beauty_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  _Autumn Compote_ (syn. of Autumn Compote), 153

  Autumn Compote, 153

  _Autumn Gage_ (syn. of Autumn Gage), 398

  Autumn Gage, 397

  _Avant Prune blanche_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Azure, 398

  _Azure Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Blue), 438


  _Babcock_ (?) (syn. of Abundance), 136

  _Babcock_ (syn. of Chabot), 172

  _Backpflaume_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Bailey, 398

  _Bailey_ (syn. of Chabot), 172

  _Bailey_ (syn. of Lyon), 488

  Bailey, Liberty Hyde, plum investigations of, 64;
    quoted, 63, 65, 99, 541

  Baker, 398

  Baker, var. orig. by, 398

  _Baker_ (syn. of Stoddard), 352

  Baker Damson (syn. of Baker), 398

  _Baker’s German Prune_ (syn. of Baker), 398

  Baldwin, 398

  _Bal Erik_ (syn. of Nikitaer Blaue Frühzwetsche), 504

  Ballonartige Gelbe Zwetsche, 398

  Ballonartige Rote Damascene, 398

  Baltet, M. M., var. orig. by, 551

  _Bamberger Eier Pflaume_ (syn. of Blue Egg), 405

  _Bamberger Eier Pflaume_ (incor.) (syn. of Kaiser Wilhelm), 474

  Bankalari Früh Damascene, 398

  _Bankalari’s Rote Früh Damascene_ (syn. of Bankalari Früh Damascene),
        398

  Banker’s Gage, 399

  Bant Späte Reine Claude, 399

  _Bant’s Late Green Gage_ (syn. of Bant Späte Reine Claude), 399

  Baraboo, 399

  Barbary, 399

  _Barberry_ (syn. of Barbary), 399

  _Bardak Erik_ (syn. of Nikitaer Dattelzwetsche), 504

  Barkhausen Violette Reine Claude, 399

  Barkley, 399

  Barnsback, 399

  _Barnsbeck_ (syn. of Barnsback), 399

  Baronne Helen Trauttenberg, 399

  Barry, quoted, 167

  Bartlett, 154

  _Bartlett_ (syn. of Oren), 300

  Basaricatta, 399

  _Basilic_ (syn. of Hungarian Musk Prune), 465

  Bassett, 155

  _Bassett’s American_ (syn. of Bassett), 155

  Bastle, 399

  Batchelor Damson, 399

  _Battle Monument_ (syn. of Blue Perdrigon), 164

  _Bauern Pflaume_ (syn. of Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling), 451

  _Bauernpflaume_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Bavay, 155

  Bavay’s Early Gage or _Bavay’s Frühe Reine-Claude_ (syns. of July
        Green Gage), 474

  _Bavay’s Green Gage_, Reine Claude or _renkloie_; _Bavays
        Reine-Claude_ (syns. of Bavay), 155

  Bazalicza, 399

  Bazalicza Damson or _Zwetsche_; _Bazalicza’s Grosse Blaue Zwetsche_
        or Prune (syns. of Bazalicza), 399

  Beach Plum, 400

  Beals, 400

  Beals, George F., var. orig. by, 400

  Bean, 400

  _Beatty_ (syn. of Aitkin), 140

  Beatty, James, var. orig. by, 396

  Beaty, 400

  Beaty, Lee, var. orig. by, 400

  Beaty Choice; _Beaty’s Choice_; Beauty, Beauty’s Choice (syn. of
        Beaty), 400

  Beauty of Naples (syn. of Naples), 502

  Bechstein Spitzpflaume, 400

  Bedford, 400

  _Beef’s Heart_ (syn. of Coeur de Boeuf), 420

  _Beekman’s Scarlet_ (syn. of Lombard), 268

  Beer Plum, 400

  Behren’s Königspflaume; _Behrens Königspflaume_ (syns. of Royale de
        Behrens), 535

  Béjonnières, 157

  Belgarian Prune (syn. of Bulgarian), 411

  Belgian Purple, 157

  _Belgian Purple_ (syn. of Belgian Purple), 157

  _Belgische Damascene_ (syn. of Belgian Purple), 157

  Bell, 400

  Bell, Levi, var. orig. by, 539

  Belle, 158

  _Belle_ (syn. of Texas Belle), 552

  _Belle d’Albany_ (syn. of Albany Beauty), 392

  _Belle de Doue_ (syn. of Chauviere), 417

  Belle de Hardy, 400

  Belle de Louvain, 400

  Belle de Paris, 401

  Belle de Riom, 401

  Belle de Schöneberg, 401

  _Belle de Schöneberg_ (syn. of Belle de Schöneberg), 401

  _Belle de Septembre_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  _Belle Tillemond_ (syn. of Tillemond), 554

  _Bell’s October_ (syn. of Bell), 400

  Belsiana, 401

  Belvoir, 401

  _Bely Zwetsche_ (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  Bender, 401

  Benedict, 401

  Beni Botan, 401

  Beni-Smono No. 3 (syn. of Blood Plum), 405

  Beni Smono No. 4 (syn. of Satsuma), 337

  Benschoten, 401

  Benson, 401

  Benson Market (syn. of Benson), 401

  Berckmans, 159

  Berckmans, P. J., life of, 159-160;
    var. orig. by, 159

  Berger, 160

  Berlepsch, 402

  Berlepsch’s Grosse Grüne Reine-Claude (syn. of Berlepsch), 402

  _Berlepchs Renclode Grosse Grüne_ (syn. of Berlepsch), 492

  Berlet Früh Damascene, 402

  _Berliner Pflaume_ (syn. of Grüne Dattel Zwetsche), 456

  Bernsteinzwetsche, 402

  _Bernsteinzwetsche_ (syn. of Bernsteinzwetsche), 402

  Berry Plum, 402

  Berryhill, 402

  Best, var. orig. by, 307

  Best Black Blood, 402

  Best of All, 402

  Bestovall (syn. of Best of All), 402

  Beta, 402

  Betterave, 402

  Beverly, quoted, 21, 84

  Beztercser Grosse Zwetsche, 402

  Biconical, 402

  _Bielaya Nicholskaya_ (syn. of Nicholas), 295

  _Bielaya Otschakorskaya_ (syn. of White Otschakoff), 564

  _Bieler Pflaume_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  Biery, 403

  _Bifere_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  _Big Blue_ (syn. of Gueii), 234

  Big Rose, 403

  _Bilboa_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Biles, H. A., var. orig. by, 403

  Bilona, 403

  Biltern (syn. of Bittern), 403

  _Bingaman_ (syn. of Oren), 300

  Bingham, 403

  _Bingham_ (syn. of Jefferson), 255

  Bingham’s Pflaume (syn. of Bingham), 403

  Biondeck, 403

  Biondeck’s Frühzwetsche; _Biondeck’s rothe Frühzwetsche_ (syns. of
        Biondeck), 403

  Birchland, 403

  Bischofsmütze (syn. of Bonnet d’Eveque), 407

  _Bischtin Erik_ (syn. of Frühe Grüne Zwetsche), 448

  Bittern, 403

  Bixby, 403

  _Black Arab_ (syn. of Black Arabka), 404

  Black Arabka, 404

  Black Ball, 404

  Black Bullace, 161

  Black Bulleis (syn. of Black Bullace), 161

  Black Damask, 404

  _Black Damask_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  Black Damask Hasting, 404

  Black Damosine (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Black Damson_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Black Damson_ (syn. of Late Black Damson), 480

  _Black Damson_ (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  Black or Blacke Damascene (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Black Damask_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Black Diamond_ (syn. of Diamond), 191

  Black Diapred (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  Black Hawk, 404

  Black Hill, 404

  _Black Imperial_ (syn. of Bradshaw), 166

  Black-knot, discussion of, 126, 127

  Blackman (syn. of Charity Clark), 417

  Blackman, Dr., var. orig. by, 163

  _Black Morocco_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  Black Muscle (syn. of Muscle), 501

  Black Mussell (syn. of Muscle), 501

  _Black Orleans_ (syn. of Late Orleans), 265

  Black Pear, 404

  Black Perdrigon, 404

  _Black Perdrigon_ (syn. of Early Blue), 438

  Black Prune, 404

  _Black Prune_ (syn. of Black Arabka), 404

  Black Prunella, 404

  Black Prunella (syn. of Sloe), 544

  _Black Prune No. 1_ (syn. of Black Prune), 404

  _Black Utah Hybrid_ (syn. of Utah), 362

  Black Vengerka (syn. of Black Prune), 404

  Blackman, 163

  _Blackthorn_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  Blaisdon, 404

  Blaisdon’s Red (syn. of Blaisdon), 404

  _Blanche Grosse Espèce_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Blaue Damascenerin_ (syn. of Lange Violette Damascene), 479

  _Blaue Dattel Pflaume_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Blaue Diaprée_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  _Blaue Eier_ (incor.) (syn. of Kaiser Wilhelm), 474

  Blaue Eierpflaume (syn. of Blue Egg), 405

  _Blaue Eier Pflaume_ (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  _Blaue Eier Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  _Blaue Eierpflaume_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Blaue Fasanen Pflaume_ (syn. of Blue Perdrigon), 164

  _Blaue Herzformige Pflaume_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  Blaue Kaiserin (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  _Blaue Kaiser Pflaume_ (syn. of Blue Egg), 405

  _Blaue Kaiserpflaume_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  _Blaue Krieche_ (syn. of Haferpflaume), 458

  Blaue Reine Claude, 405

  _Blaue Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  _Blaue Riesenzwetsche_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  _Blauer Perdrigon_ (syn. of Blue Perdrigon), 164

  _Blauer Spilling_ (syn. of Nikitaer Blaue Frühzwetsche), 504

  _Blaue von Belgien_ (syn. of Belgian Purple), 157

  _Blaue Zipper_ (syn. of Bechstein Spitzpflaume), 400

  Blaugh, 405

  _Bleecker’s_; _Bleecker’s Gage_, _German Gage_, _Yellow_, or _Yellow
        Gage_; _Blecker’s_; Bleeker’s Gage, _Gelbe Reine-Claude_,
        _Gelbe Renklode_, _Gelbe Zwetsche_, _Yellow_, or _Yellow Gage_
        (syns. of Bleeker), 163

  _Bleecker’s Rothe Pflaume_; _Bleecker’s Scarlet_; Bleeker’s
        Rotepflaume or _Scarlet_; _Bleeker’s Rothe Pflaume_ (syns. of
        Lombard), 268

  Bleeker, 163

  Bleeker, Mrs., var. orig. by, 164, 405

  Bleeker Large Red, 405

  Bleu de Belgique; _Bleu de Bergues_ or _de Pergue_; _Bleue de
        Belgique_, _de Bergues_, _de Peck_ or _de Perk_ (syns. of
        Belgian Purple), 157

  Bleue de Perse, 405

  _Bleue d’Italie_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  _Blew Damask_ or Damson (syn. of Damson), 186

  Blew Perdrigon (syn. of Blue Perdrigon), 164

  Blood Plum, 405

  _Blood Plum_ (syn. of Satsuma), 337

  _Blood Plum_ (syn. of Shviata Bene), 543

  Blood Plum No. 3 (syn. of Blood Plum), 405

  _Blood Plum No. 4_ (syn. of Satsuma), 337

  Blubenthal, 405

  Blubenthal Damson (syn. of Blubenthal), 405

  _Blucher’s_ Gage (syn. of Bleeker), 163

  Blue Apricot, 405

  _Blue Damascene_ (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  _Blue Damson_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Blue Damson_ (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  Blue Egg, 405

  Blue Egg-Plum (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Blue Eye, 405

  _Blue Gage_ (syn. of Early Blue), 438

  _Blue Holland_ (syn. of Holland), 462

  _Blue Imperatrice_ (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  _Blue Imperatrice_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  _Blue Impératrice_ (syn. of Semiana), 541

  _Blue Imperial_ (syn. of Bradshaw), 166

  _Blue Magnum Bonum_ (syn. of Gueii), 234

  Blue Matchless, 405

  Blue Moldavka, 405

  Bluemont, 405

  Blue Perdrigon (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  Blue Perdrigon, 164

  _Blue Perdrigon_ (syn. of Blue Perdrigon), 164

  _Blue Perdrigon_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Blue Plum, 406

  Blue Prolific, 406

  _Blue Prolific_ (syn. of Blue Prolific), 406

  Blue Primordian, 406

  Blue Prune, 406

  Blue Rock, 406

  Blue Tweens, 406

  Blue Violet, 406

  Blum, 406

  _Bocksdutten_ or _Bockshoden_ (syns. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Boddaert, 165

  Boddaert’s Green Gage or Reine Claude; Boddart’s Green Gage (syns. of
        Boddaert), 165

  Bohemian Prune, 406

  _Bohns Mirabelle_ or _Gestreifte Mirabelle_ (syns. of Mirabelle De
        Bohn), 496

  _Bole_ (syn. of Bowle), 407

  _Bolmar_; _Bolmer_; _Bolmar’s_ or _Bolmer’s_ or _Bolmore’s
        Washington_ (syns. of Washington), 368

  Bomberger, 406

  _Bon deux fois l’an_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  Bongoume, 407

  Bonne Bouche, 407

  Bonne de Bry, 407

  Bonnemain de la Digue, 407

  Bonne Rouge, 407

  Bonne St. Ann (syn. of St. Anne), 537

  Bonnet d’Eveque, 407

  _Bonnet d’Eveque_ (syn. of Bonnet d’Eveque), 407

  _Bonne Verte_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Bonum Magnum_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  _Bonum Magnum_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Bossland, 407

  _Botan_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  _Botan_ (syn. of Berckmans), 159

  _Botan_ (syn. of Red June), 324

  _Botan_ (syn. of Willard), 379

  _Botan No. 26_ (syn. of Willard), 379

  Botan White (syn. of Berckmans), 159

  _Botankin_ (syn. of Kelsey), 258

  _Botankio_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  _Bottle Plum_ (syn. of Red Prune), 529

  _Boulouf_ (syn. of Jodoigne), 472

  Bouloff (syn. of Boulouf), 407

  Boulouf, 407

  Bouncer, 407

  Bourgeois, M., var. orig. by, 174

  Bower, 407

  Bower, var. orig. by, 407

  _Bower’s Gage_ (syn. of Bower), 407

  Bowle, 407

  Brackett, 408

  _Bradford Gage_, _Green Gage_ or _Queen Gage_ (syns. of Reine
        Claude), 327

  Bradley’s King or King of Damsons (syns. of King Damson), 259

  Bradshaw, 166

  _Bradshaw_ (syn. of Bradshaw), 166

  _Bradshaw_ (syn. of Gueii), 234

  _Bradshaw_ (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  Brahy, 408

  _Brahy’s Green Gage_ (syn. of Brahy), 408

  Brainerd, 408

  _Brainerd’s Best_ (syn. of Brainerd), 408

  Brandon Ruby, 408

  Brandy Gage, 408

  Brant of Naples, 408

  Brauman, 408

  Braunauer Aprikosenartige; _Braunauer Aprikosenartige Damascene_ or
        _Neue Kernfrucht_ (syns. of Abricotée de Braunau), 391

  Braunauer Damascenenartige Pflaume, 408

  _Braunauer Königs Pflaume_ or _Violetter Perdrigon_ (syns. of Buchner
        Königspflaume), 410

  Breck, 408

  Breck, Joseph, var. orig. by, 454

  Breece, J. S., var. orig. by, 414, 421, 425, 458, 496, 498, 511, 512,
        535, 539, 541, 544

  Breitgedrückte Kaiser Zwetsche or _Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche
        Aplatie), 523

  _Bremen Prune_ (syn. of Austrian Quetsche), 397

  Brevoort, Henry, var. orig. by, 408

  Brevoort Purple, 408

  _Brevoort’s Purple_, Purple Bolmar or _Purple Washington_; Brevorts;
        _Brevort’s Purple_; _Brevorts Purple Bolmar_; _Brevorts’ Purple
        Bolmar_ (syns. of Brevoort Purple), 408

  Briançon, 409

  _Bricet_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _Bricet_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  _Bricetta_ or _Bricette_ (syns. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _Bricette_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Brignole, 409

  Brignole (syn. of Brignole Violette), 409

  Brignole (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Brignole_ or _Brignolle_ (syns. of White Perdrigon), 375

  Brignole Jaune (syn. of Brignole), 409

  _Brignole Plum_ (syn. of Brignole), 409

  Brignole Violette, 409

  _Brignole Violette_ (syn. of Blue Perdrigon), 164

  _Brignole Violette_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  Brill, 409

  _Brisette_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle, 263; of Saint Catherine, 334)

  Bristol, 409

  Briton Seedling, 409

  Brittlewood, 409

  _Brittlewood No. 1_ (syn. of Brittlewood), 409

  _Brittlewood No. 2_ (syn. of U. S.), 557

  Brittlewood No. 3, 410

  Britzer Egg, 410

  Brock, 410

  Brodie, R., var. orig. by, 410

  Brodie, 410

  Brompton, 410

  Brooklyn, 410

  Brown, var. orig. by, 461

  Brown, John, var. orig. by, 445

  Brown-rot, discussion of, 127

  Brown’s Crimson Drop (syn. of Crimson Drop), 424.

  Bruce, A. L., life of, 527-528;
    var. orig. by, 402, 423, 425, 434, 447, 455, 490, 509, 519, 526, 527,
        554, 560

  Bruce, Philip Alexander, quoted, 84, 85

  _Brugnole_ (syn. of Brignole Violette), 409

  Brugnole (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Brugnon de Neerveteren_ (syn. of Rademakers), 525

  _Brugnon Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Brugnon Green Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Brünner Zwetsche, 410

  Brunswick, 410

  Brussels, 410

  _Brustwarzenpflaume, Die_ (syn. of Mamelonnée), 489

  _Bruyn Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Bryan, 410

  Bryanston, 168

  Bryanston Gage; Bryanstone; Bryanstone Gage; Bryanston’s Gage (syns.
        of Bryanston), 168

  Buchanan, 410

  Buchner Königspflaume, 410

  Buckman, Benjamin, var. orig. by, 476

  Budd, 410

  Budd, Prof. J. L., life of, 145;
    quoted, 145, 269;
    var. orig. by, 145, 362, 471

  Buel, 411

  Buel, Judge, var. orig. by, 256

  _Buel’s Favorite_; Buel’s Liebling’s Zwetsche (syns. of Buel), 411

  Buffalo Bill, 411

  Buhl-Eltershofen, 411

  _Buhl-Eltershofen Zwetsche_ (syn. of Buhl-Eltershofen), 411

  Buhler, 411

  Buhler’s Early Prune (syn. of Buhler), 411

  Bulah No. 4, 411

  Bulgaria, 411

  Bulgarian, 411

  Bullace (syn. of White Bullace), 373

  _Bullace_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  Bullace group, 40

  Bullesse (syn. of Black Bullace), 161

  Bullman, 411

  Bullock, Jesse, var. orig. by, 175

  Bullock, 411

  Bullock’s Heart (syn. of Bullock), 411

  Bull Plum, 411

  Bunker Hill, 411

  Bunte Früh Pflaume, 411

  _Bunte Herzformige Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  Bunter Perdrigon, 412

  _Buntfarbige Violette Pflaume_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  Buon-Boccone (syn. of Catelano Giallo), 415

  Burbank, 169

  Burbank First, 412

  Burbank, Luther, life of, 170-171;
    quoted, 76, 77, 95, 96, 146, 147, 333, 571;
    var. orig. by, 141, 142, 146, 147, 154, 170, 171, 179, 222, 225, 237,
        257, 275, 285, 296, 297, 333, 337, 343, 354, 377, 393, 402, 416,
        420, 421, 439, 446, 447, 450, 452, 461, 465, 467, 471, 473, 480,
        483, 485, 491, 504, 518, 521, 539, 543, 547, 548, 559, 560, 571

  Burbank’s First (syn. of Burbank First), 412

  Burbank No. 1, 412

  Burbank No. 2 (syn. of Abundance), 136

  _Burbank No. 3_ (syn. of Late Blood), 480

  _Burbank No. 4_ (syn. of Heikes), 460

  Burbank No. 7, 412

  Burbank No. 11, 412

  Burbank × Redick, 412

  _Burbank’s Sultan_ (syn. of Occident), 295

  Burchardt Gelbe Früh Zwetsche, 412

  Burettes, 412

  Burford, 412

  _Burgnon Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Burgunder Zwetsche (syn. of Burgundy Prune), 412

  Burgundy Prune, 412

  _Burgundy Prune_ (syn. of Burgundy Prune), 412

  Burlington Gage, 413

  Burnet, 413

  Burrettes (syn. of Burettes), 412

  Bursoto, 413

  _Burwood_ (syn. of Emerald), 442

  _Bury Seedling_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 228

  _Bush_; _Bush Plum of Kent_ (syns. of Kent), 476

  Byefield, 413


  Caddo Chief, 413

  Caldwell Golden Drop, 413

  Caldwell’s Golden Drop (syn. of Caldwell Golden Drop), 413

  Caldwell’s White Gage (syn. of Caldwell White Gage), 413

  Caldwell White Gage, 413

  _Caledonian_ (syn. of Dove Bank, 435; of Goliath, 231; of Nectarine,
        231; of Peach, 309)

  _California_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  California, 413

  _California Seedling_; Cal. Seedling (syns. of California), 413

  _Calvels Pfirschenpflaume_ (syn. of Peach), 309

  Cambell, 414

  _Cambell’s Seedling_ (syn. of Cambell), 414

  Camp, Charles B., var. orig. by, 478

  Campbell, 414

  Canada Blue, 414

  _Canada Egg_ (syn. of Canada Orleans), 414

  Canada Orleans, 414

  Canadian Apricot, 414

  _Canawa_ (syn. of Kanawha), 474

  Candelaria, 414

  Candelaria Prune (syn. of Candelaria), 414

  _Cant’s Late Green Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Caper, 414

  Capitaine Kirchhof, 414

  _Capitaine Kirckhof_ or _Kirckkof_ (syns. of Capitaine Kirchhof), 414

  Captain, 414

  Capt. Bacon, 415

  Capt. Watrous, 415

  Caradeuc (syn. of De Caradeuc), 188

  Caro, 415

  Caroline, 415

  Carpenter, 415

  Carrière, quoted, 336

  Carson, 415

  Carstesen, H. P., var. orig. by, 415

  Carstesen, 415

  Cartier, Jacques, quoted, 70

  Carver, 415

  _Castelane_; Castellan (syns. of Early Yellow), 203

  Catalana Propria, 415

  _Catalana-Susina_ (syn. of Catalano), 415

  _Catalana Toscana_ (syn. of Catalana Propria), 415

  _Catalane_; Catalonia; _Catalonian_; _Catalonische Kricke_ or
        _Pflaume_; _Catalonischer Spilling_ (syns. of Early Yellow), 203

  Catalano, 415

  Catelana Morella (syn. of Catelano Violaceo), 416

  _Catelane_ (syn. of Catalano), 415

  Catelane Giallo, 415

  Catelano Violaceo, 416

  _Catharinenpflaume_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Catharinenpflaume von Schenectady (syn. of Schenectady), 540

  Catherine, 416

  Catherine (Prune de Ste.) (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  _Catherine violette_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Cavel’s Pfirschenpflaume_ (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  Cel, 416

  Centennial, 416

  Centralia, 416

  _Cerasus nigra_, 69

  _Cerasus umbellata_, 78

  _Cerasus pubescens_, 92

  _Cerise_; _Cerisette_; _Cerisette Blanche_; Cerizette (syns. of
        Myrobalan), 290

  _Cerisette Blanche_ (syn. of Gelbe Kirschpflaume, 450; of Early
        Yellow, 203)

  _Cernay Perdrigon_ (syn. of Perdrigon of Cernay), 514

  Cernay Perdrigon (syn. of Cerney Perdrigon), 416

  Cerney Perdrigon, 416

  Ceur de Beuf, 416

  Chabardin, M., var. orig. by, 456

  _Chabot_ (syn. of Chabot), 172

  Chabot, 172

  Chabot Blood, 416

  Chalco, 174

  Chambourcy, 174

  Champion, 175

  Champion, 416

  Champion Prune (syn. of Champion), 175

  Chancellor Gage, 416

  Chapin, Aaron, var. orig. by, 416

  Chapin, 416

  _Chapin’s Early_ (syn. of Howell), 465

  Chapman, var. orig. by, 367

  _Chapman’s Prince of Wales_; Chapman’s Prince of Wales’ Plum (syns.
        of Wales), 366

  Chariot, 417

  Charity Clark, 417

  _Charles Downing_ (syn. of Downing), 193

  _Charlotte_ (syn. of Charlotte), 417

  Charlotte, 417

  Charmer, 417

  _Chase_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  Chautauqua, 417

  Chauviere, M., var. orig. by, 417

  Chauviere, 417

  Cheney, 176

  Cheresoto, 417

  Cherokee, 417

  Cherry, 417

  _Cherry_ (syn. of Cheney, 176; of Myrobalan, 290; of Queen Mother,
        522)

  _Cherry Plum_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Chester, 417

  Chester County Prune, 418

  Chestnut, 418

  _Cheston_; _Cheston Matchless_; Cheston’s Plumb (syns. of Violet
        Diaper), 365

  _Chicasaw Chief_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  _Chickasaw_ (syn. of Scioto), 541

  Chicrigland, 418

  _Chili_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Chinook, 418

  Chippewa, 418

  Chippeway (syn. of Chippewa), 418

  Choptank, 418

  Christian, 418

  Christie, 418

  Christ’s Damascene (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  Churchill, 419

  Chypre, 418

  Cinnamon, 419

  Cire (syn. of Wax), 562

  _Ciriselle_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Cistena, 419

  City, 419

  _Clairac Mammoth_ (syn. of Imperial Epineuse), 250

  Clara, 419

  Clarendon, 419

  Clark, Thomas, var. orig. by, 522

  Clark, 419

  Claudia (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Cleavinger, 419

  Cleveland, 419

  Clifford, Mrs., var. orig. by, 420

  Clifford, 419

  Climate, effects of, 101-109

  Climax, 178

  Climax’s Brother, 420

  Clingstone Wolf (syn. of Wolf Clingstone), 567

  Cling Stem, 179

  Clinton, 420

  _Cloth of Gold_; _Cloth of Gold Plum_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Cloth of Gold_; _Cloth of Gold Esperen_ (syn. of Esperen), 206

  Cluck, 420

  Cluck, George, var. orig. by, 420

  _Cluster_ (syn. of Crittenden), 184

  Cluster, 420

  _Cluster Damson_ (syn. of Crittenden), 184

  Clyman, 180

  Clyman, Mrs. Hannah, var. orig. by, 184

  Cochet, 420

  _Cochet Pére_; Cochets Pflaume (syns. of Cochet), 420

  Coe (syn. of Golden Drop), 228

  Coe, Jervaise, var. orig. by, 229.

  _Coe à Fruit Violet_ (syn. of Coe Violet), 420

  Coe Golden Drop (syn. of Golden Drop), 228

  _Coe_ (Pr. de); _Coe’s_; Coe’s Golden Drop; Coe’s Golden Drop Plum;
        _Coe’s Imperial_; _Coe’s Plum_; Coe’s Rotgefleckte Pflaume;
        _Coe’s Rothgefleckte Pflaume_; _Coe’s Seedling_ (syns. of
        Golden Drop), 228

  Coe’s Fine Late Red (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Coe’s Golden Drop Violette_ (syn. of Coe Violet), 420

  _Coe’s Late Red_ (syn. of Saint Martin Quetsche), 538

  Coe’s Late Red (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Coë’s sehr späte rothe Pflaume_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Coe Violette_; Coe’s Violet; _Coe’s Violette_ (syns. of Coe
        Violet), 420

  Coe Violet, 420

  Coeur de Boeuf, 420

  _Coeur de Pigeon_ (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  Coferer, 421

  _Coferers_ (syn. of Coferer), 421

  Coinage, 421

  Col. Wetherell (syn. of Wetherell), 563

  _Col. Young’s Seedling_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Coletta, 421

  Coleus, 421

  Collman (syn. of Colman), 421

  Collo-Torto (syn. of Basaricatta), 399

  Colman, 421

  _Colonel Bryan_ (syn. of Bryan), 410

  _Colonel_ or Col. Wilder (syns. of Wilder), 565

  _Colorado_ (syn. of Colorado Queen), 421

  Colorado Queen, 421

  Columbia, 181

  _Columbia_ (syn. of Captain), 414

  _Columbia Gage_; _Columbia Pflaume_; _Columbian Gage_ (syns. of
        Columbia), 181

  Columella, quoted, 28, 36

  Combination, 421

  Comfort, 421

  _Common Blue Damson_ (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  _Common Damson_ (syn. of Damson, 186; of Winter Damson, 567)

  _Common Orleans_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Common Quetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Common Saint Julien (syn. of Saint Julien), 335

  _Common Sloe_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  Communia, 421

  Compass, 422

  Compass, 182

  _Compass Cherry_ (syn. of Compass), 182

  Compass Cherry (syn. of Compass), 422

  Compote d’Automne (syn. of Autumn Compote), 153

  Comptine, 422

  Comte Gustavo d’Egger, 422

  Consul, 422

  Cope, John, var. orig. by, 423

  Cooch, 422

  Cooch, var. orig. by, 422

  Cook, 422

  Cook (syn. of Cook Choice), 422

  Cook Choice, 422

  Cook’s Choice; _Cook’s Favorite_ (syns. of Cook Choice), 422

  _Cook’s Early_ (syn. of Cook), 422

  Cooper, 422

  Cooper, Joseph, var. orig. by, 423

  Cooper’s (syn. of Smith Orleans), 348

  Cooper’s (syn. of Cooper), 423

  _Cooper’s Blue Gage_ (syn. of Early Blue), 438

  Cooper’s Grosse Pflaume (syn. of Cooper), 423

  _Cooper’s Grosse Rothe Zwetsche_ (syn. of Cooper), 423

  _Cooper’s Large_ (syn. of Cooper, 423; of Golden Drop, 228; of Smith
        Orleans, 348)

  _Cooper’s Large American_ (syn. of Cooper), 423

  _Cooper’s Large Red_ (syn. of Cooper, 423; of Smith Orleans, 348)

  _Cooper’s Large Red American_ (syn. of Cooper), 423

  Coopers Plum (syn. of Cooper), 423

  _Cooper’s Plum_ (syn. of Cooper), 423

  _Cooper’s Red_ (syn. of Cooper, 423; of Smith Orleans, 348)

  Cope, 423

  Cope’s Seedling (syn. of Cope), 423

  _Copper_ (syn. of Copper, 183; of Richland, 531)

  Copper, 183

  _Copper Plum_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Cornell, J. R., quoted, 244

  Cornemuse, 423

  Corse, Henry, var. orig. by, 391, 432, 445, 453, 455, 507, 532, 540,
        557, 563

  _Corse’s Admiral_ (syn. of Admiral), 391

  Corse’s Dictator (syn. of Dictator), 432

  _Corse’s Field Marshal_; Corse’s Field Marshall (syns. of Field
        Marshall), 445

  Corse’s Great Bearer (syn. of Great Bearer), 455

  Corse’s Nota Bena or Nota Bene (syn. of Nota Bene), 507

  Corse’s Rising Sun (syn. of Rising Sun), 532

  _Corse’s Sauvageon_ (syn. of Sauvageon), 539

  _Corse’s Twins_ (syn. of Twins), 557

  Corymbus, 423

  Cottrell, 423

  Cottrell, R. T., var. orig. by, 423

  _Couetch; Couetche; Couetsche_ (syns. of German Prune), 219

  _Couetsche d’Italie; Couetsche Fellenberg_ (syns. of Italian Prune),
        253

  _Couetsche Ordinaire_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Couetsche Précoce_; _Couetsche Précoce La Vraie_ (syns. of Wahre
        Frühzwetsche), 560

  Couler, 423

  Couler, William, var. orig. by, 423

  Coulommiers, 423

  Coulommiers Pflaume (syn. of Coulommiers), 423

  Coulon Reine Claude, 423

  Coulon’s Reine Claude (syn. of Coulon Reine Claude), 423

  Coul Orleans, 423

  Count Althann’s Gage (syn. of Altham), 141

  Court Royal, 424

  Cover-crops, value of, 121

  _Covetche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Covetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Cowles, E. D., var. orig. by, 516

  Cowperthwait Green Gage, 424

  Cox, Mrs., var. orig. by, 424

  Cox, 424

  Coxe, William, quoted, 25

  Cox’s Emperor (syn. of Denbigh), 430

  Cox’s Seedling (syn. of Cox), 424

  Crable, 424

  Craig, 424

  Crescent, 424

  Crescent City (syn. of Crescent), 424

  Crimson, 424

  Crimson Beauty, 424

  Crimson Drop, 424

  Crittenden, 184

  Crittenden, James, var. orig. by, 184

  Crittenden’s Damson (syn. of Crittenden), 184

  _Crittenden’s Prolific_; _Crittenden’s Prolific Damson_ (syns. of
        Crittenden), 184

  Croft Early, 424

  Croft’s Early (syn. of Croft Early), 424

  Cross, var. orig. by, 438

  Cross-bred Prune A.P.-318 (syn. of Splendor), 547

  Cruger, Henry, var. orig. by, 424

  Cruger Scarlet, 424

  _Cruger’s_; _Cruger’s Früh Pflaume_, _Plum_, Rote Pflaume, _Scarlet_,
        _Scarlet Gage_, or _Seedling_ (syns. of Cruger Scarlet), 424

  Csaszar Sziloa, 425

  Culberson, 425

  Cumberland, 425

  Curlew, 425

  Curry, 425

  Curry, S. L., var. orig. by, 425

  Cyca Mono, 425

  Cyclone, 425

  Cydemarine, 425

  Cyprian (syn. of Chypre), 418

  _Cyprische Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  Czar, 184


  _D’Abricot of Streets of Paris_ (syn. of Peach), 309

  D’Agen (syn. of Agen), 138

  D’Agen Ameliorée (syn. of Ameliorée), 394

  D’Agen Dorée (syn. of Dorée), 434

  Dahlgreen, 425

  Daisy, 425

  Dakota, 425

  _D’Allemagne_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Dalrymple, 426

  Dalrymple Damson (syn. of Dalrymple), 426

  _D’Altesse Blanche_ (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  Damas Ambre, 426

  _Damas Aubert_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Damas-Ballon Jaune_ (syn. of Ballonartige Gelbe Zwetsche), 398

  _Damas-Ballon Rouge_ (syn. of Ballonartige Rote Damascene), 398

  _Damas-Ballon Panachée Variete_ (syn. of Ballonartige Gelbe
        Zwetsche), 398

  _Damas Blanc_, _Blanc Gros_, _Blanc Hâtif Gros_, _Blanc Tres Hâtif_
        (syns. of Large White Damson), 480

  _Damas blanc petit_ (syn. of Small White Damson), 544

  Damas Commun (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Damas de Dieffenbach_ (syn. of Damas de Diffenbach), 426

  Damas de Diffenbach, 426

  _Damas de Leipsick_ (syn. of Frühe Leipziger Damascene), 448

  Damas de Mangeron; _Damas de Mangeron_, _de Maugeron_, _de Maugerou_;
        or _de Maugiron_, _Damascene Maugeron_, von Mangeron or _von
        Maugeron_ (syns. of Maugeron), 492

  Damas de Provence, 426

  _Damas de Provence_ or _de Provence Hâtif_ (syns. of Damas de
        Provence), 426

  _Damas de Septembre_ (syn. of Perdrigon Tardif, 515; of September
        Damask, 542)

  _Damas d’Espagne_ (syn. of Spanish Damask), 546

  Damas d’Ete, 426

  _Damas de Tours_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  _Damas de Tours_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Damas de Tours_ or _de Tours Gros_ (syns. of Gros Damas de Tours),
        456

  Damas de Valence (syn. of Valence), 557

  Damas d’Hiver (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  _Damas d’Italie_ (syn. of Italian Damask), 470

  _Damas d’Onderka_ (syn. of Onderka Damascene), 509

  Damas Dronet, 426

  _Damas Dronet_ (syn. of Damas Dronet), 426

  Damas Dronet de Merlet, 427

  _Damas Fin_ (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  _Damas Gris_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Damas Gros_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Damas gros de Tours (syn. of Gros Damas de Tours), 456

  Damas Hâtif (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Damas Jaune_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Damas Jaune Musque, 427

  _Damas Jaune Tardif de Koch_ (syn. of Koch späte Damascene), 477

  _Damas Lawson_ (syn. of Lawson), 482

  _Damas Long_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Damas Musque (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  _Damas Noir_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Damas noir_ (syn. of Late Black Damson), 480

  Damas Noir (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Damas Noir de Dieffenbach_ (syn. of Damas de Diffenbach), 426

  Damas Noir de Tours, 427

  _Damas Noir Hâtif_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  Damas Noir Hatif (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Damas Noir Tardif_ (syn. of Late Black Damson), 480

  _Damas Précoce de Rivers_ (syn. of Rivers Early), 532

  Damas Rouge (syn. of Orleans), 302

  Damas Rouge de Biondeck, 427

  _Damas Rouge de Friedheim_ (syn. of Friedheim Damascene), 448

  Damas Rouge de Mayer or de Moyer (syns. of Mayers Rothe Damascene),
        493

  Damas Rouge Hâtif, 427

  _Damas Rouge Hâtif_ (syn. of Damas Rouge Hâtif), 427

  _Damas rouge tardif_ (syn. of Late Red Damask), 481

  Damas Tardif de Kock (syn. of Koch Späte Damascene), 477

  _Damas Verd_ or _Vert_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Damas Vert_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  Damas Violet, 427

  _Damas Violet_ (syn. of Damas Violet, 427; of German Prune, 219; of
        Maugeron, 492; of Orleans, 302; of Queen Mother, 522)

  _Damas Violet Allonge_ (syn. of Lange Violette Damascene), 479

  _Damas Violet Gros_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Damas Violet Longuet_ (syn. of Lange Violette Damascene), 479

  Damas Violet of Tours (syn. of Gros Damas de Tours), 456

  Damas Violet Tardif (syn. of Damas Violet), 427

  _Damascena Armeniaca_ or _Armeniacea_ (syns. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Damascena Dominicalis Praecox_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Damascena Schamali_ (syn. of Schamal), 540

  _Damascene_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Damascene_ (syn. of Shropshire), 344

  _Damascene Maugeron_, von Mangeron or _von Maugeron_ (syns. of
        Maugeron), 492

  Damascenen Mirabelle (syn. of Small White Damson), 544

  Damaschino d’Estate (syn. of Damaschino Estivo), 426

  Damaschino Estivo, 426

  Damaschino Settembrino, 426

  Damascus (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Damasine_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Damasine_ (syn. of Rote Mirabelle), 533

  _Damask_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Damask Violet (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  _Damask of Provence_ (syn. of Damas de Provence), 426

  _Damasquinée_ (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  Damatie Rouge, 427

  _Dame Ambert_, _Ambert Blanche_ or _Ambert Jaune_, _Aubert_, _Aubert
        Blanche_, _Aubert Grosse Luisante_, or _Aubert Jaune_ (syns. of
        Yellow Egg), 386

  Dame Aubert, _Aubert Rouge_ or _Aubert Violette_ (syns. of Red
        Magnum Bonum), 325

  Dame Aubert Jaune (syn. of Aubert), 397

  _Dame Aubert Rouge_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Dame-Aubert Rouge_ (syn. of Blue Egg), 405

  _Dame Aubert Violet_ (syn. of Duane), 196

  _D’Amerique Rouge_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Damson_ (syn. of Damson, 186; of Winter Damson, 567)

  Damson, 185

  _Damson Cluster_ (syn. of Crittenden), 184

  Damson group, description of, 39-40

  _Damson Plum_ (syn. of Shropshire), 344

  Damson Riley, 427

  Damson Royal, 427

  Damson Winter (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  Dana, Rev., var. orig. by, 428

  Dana’s Gage; _Dana’s Yellow Gage_ (syns. of Dana Yellow Gage), 428

  Dana Yellow Gage, 427

  Daniel, Dr., var. orig. by, 428

  Daniel Weeping, 428

  Danish Damson, 428

  _Dark Blue Egg_ (syn. of Kaiser Wilhelm), 474

  Darst, 428

  Darst, var. orig. by, 428

  Darwin Peach (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Das Blaue Auge_ (syn. of Lange Violette Damascene), 479

  _D’Ast_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  Date, 428

  _Date_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _Date de Hongrie_; _Date Plum_; _Datte de Hongrie_ or Hungrie; _Datte
        Violette_; _Dattelzwetsche_ (syns. of Hungarian), 246

  Date Plum (syn. of Date), 428

  Datilles, 428

  Datte Hongroise Jaune, 428

  _Datte Jaune_ (syn. of Weisse Kaiserin), 563

  _Dattel Pflaume_ or _Zwetsche_ (syns. of Red Date), 322

  Dattelpflaumen; _Dattelzwetsche_ (syns. of Date), 428

  _Datte Verte_ (syn. of Grüne Dattel Zwetsche), 456

  _Datte Violette_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _Dauphin_ (syn. of Victoria), 363

  _Dauphin_ (syn. of Sharp), 340

  _Dauphin à Fleurs doubles_; _Dauphin à Fleurs semi-doubles_ (syns. of
        Double Flowering Gage), 192

  Dauphine, 428

  _Dauphine_; _Dauphiny_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  _D’Automne de Schamal_ (syn. of Schamal), 540

  D’Autriche (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _D’Autriche_ (syn. of Date), 428

  Davenport, 429

  Davies Seedling, 429

  Davies’ Seedling (syn. of Davies Seedling), 429

  Davis, 429

  _D’Avoine_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Dawson, 186, 429

  Dawson, P. P., var. orig. by, 187

  Dawson City, 429

  _Dawson Seedling_ (syn. of Dawson), 186

  _De Bavay_ (syn. of Bavay), 155

  _De Besançon_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _De Bordeaux_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  De Briançon (syn. of Briançon), 409

  _De Briancon_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _De Brignole_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  DeCaisne, 187

  _Decaisnes Pflaume_ (syn. of DeCaisne), 187

  De Caradeuc, 188

  De Caradeuc, A., var. orig. by, 188

  _De Catalogue_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _De Chypre_ (syn. of Chypre, 418; of Red Diaper, 323; of Musk
        Damson, 501)

  _De Coe_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 228

  De Délice, 429

  _De Deux Saison_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  De Gisborne (syn. of Gisborne), 451

  De Gondin, 430

  _De Jerusalem_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _De Kirke_ (syn. of Kirke), 260

  De la Toussaint, 430

  _De la Saint-Martin_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  Delaware, 430

  De l’Inde, 430

  _De Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  De Mitchelson (syn. of Mitchelson), 498

  _De Monsieur_ (syn. of Yellow Egg, 386; Early Tours, 202; Orleans,
        302; Early Orleans, 198)

  _De Monsieur Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _De Monsieur Jaune_ (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  De Montfort, 430

  De Montmirail, 430

  _De Pologne_ (syn. of Quetsche Dr. Létricourt), 524

  De Pontbriant (syn. of Pontbriant), 517

  _De Prince_ (syn. of Norbert), 505

  _De Prince_ (_en Lorraine_) (syn. of De Seigneur), 431

  _De Reizeinstein_ (syn. of Reizenstein Yellow Prune), 531

  _De Sainte-Catherine_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  De Seigneur, 431

  De Soto, 189

  _De Soto × Oregon No. 3_ (syn. of Ames), 144

  _De Virginie_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _De Wangenheim_ (syn. of Wangenheim), 368

  De Wolf, M. J., var. orig. by, 498

  Dean, 429

  Deane, Samuel, D. D., quoted, 21, 38

  Dean’s Jedburgh Seedling (syn. of Dean), 429

  Deaton, 429

  Deck, 429

  Decks Damson (syn. of Deck), 429

  Decker, 429

  Decker, H. C., var. orig. by, 429

  Decker’s Late Seedling (syn. of Decker), 429

  _Decker’s Seedling_ (syn. of Decker), 429

  Deep Creek, 429

  Deepcreek (syn. of Deep Creek), 429

  Defresne, 430

  Denbigh, 430

  _Denbigh-Pflaume; Denbigh Seedling_; _Denbigh_ (syns. of Denbigh), 430

  Dennie (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  Dennis, 431

  _Dennison’s Red_; _Denniston’s Red_; Denniston’s Rote Pflaume (syns.
        of Denniston Red), 431

  _Dennison’s Superb_ (syn. of Denniston Superb), 431

  Dennis Seedling No. 13, 431

  Denniston, Isaac, var. orig. by, 393, 411, 431, 478, 500

  Denniston Red, 431

  _Denniston’s Albany_ or _Albany Beauty_ (syns. of Albany Beauty), 392

  Denniston Superb, 431

  _Denniston’s Superb_ or Superb Gage (syns. of Denniston Superb), 431

  _D’Ente_ (syn. of Lot d’Ente), 486

  _D’Ente_; D’Ente d’Agen (syns. of Agen), 138

  D’Ente Impériale, 431

  Denton, 431

  _Denyer’s Victoria_ (syn. of Sharp, 340; of Victoria, 363)

  Der blaue Rebhuhn aus der Normandie (syn. of Normand Perdrigon), 505

  _Der Bunter Perdrigon_ (syn. of Bunter Perdrigon), 412

  Derbyshire Green Gage, 431

  Deron, 431

  Deron’s (syn. of Deron), 431

  Des Béjonnières (syn. of Béjonnières), 157

  Des Burettes (syn. of Burettes), 412

  Des Moines, 431

  _Deutsche Blaue Herbstzwetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Deux fois l’an_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  Dewey, 432

  _Diademe_; _Diademe Imperial_ or _Imperiale_ (syns. of Red Diaper),
        323

  Diademe Imperial-Isabelle, 432

  _Diamant_; Diamantpflaume (syns. of Diamond), 191

  _Diamant_; Diamantpflaume (syns. of Pond), 314

  Diamond, 191, 432

  Diamond, var. orig. by, 191

  Diana, 432

  Diaper; _Diaper Rouge_; _Diapre Rouge_, _Diaprea rubra_; _Diaprée de
        Roche Corbon_; _Diaprée Rouge_ (syns. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Diaper’d Plumb_ (syn. of Diaprée Blanche), 432

  _Diaphane_ (syn. of Transparent), 360

  _Diaphane Laffay_ (syn. of Transparent), 360

  _Diapre Blanc_ (syn. of White Diaper), 564

  _Diaprée Blanche_; Diaprée Weisse (syns. of Diaprée Blanche), 432

  _Diaprée Blanche_ (syn. of White Diaper, 564; of White Perdrigon, 375)

  Diaprée Blanche, 432

  Diaprée noire; _Diapre Violet_; _Diaprée Violette_ (syns. of Violet
        Diaper), 365

  Diapree Nouvelle De Kook, 432

  Dictator, 432

  Die Abrikosenartige Pflaume (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Die Albertus Damenpflaume_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Die Aprikosenpflaume (syn. of Red Apricot), 321

  _Die Bischofsmütze_ (syn. of Bonnet d’Eveque), 407

  _Die Blaue Dattelpflaume_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _Die Blutfarbege Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Die Brisette_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _Die Brustwarzenpflaume_ (syn. of Mamelonnée), 489

  Die Damascenerpflaume von Maugeron (syn. of Maugeron), 492

  Die Damaskpflaume aus Spanien (syn. of Spanish Damask), 546

  _Die Durchsichtige_ (syn. of Transparente), 555

  Die frühe Pflaume von Tours (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Die Gartenzwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Maraichère), 524

  _Die gelbe frühzeitige Pflaume_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Die grosse indianische braunrothe Pflaume (syn. of Indian), 468

  Die grosse Königin Claudiapflaume, die grüne Abrikose (syn. of
        Reine Claude), 327

  Die grosse Königin Klaudia Pflaume mit halbgefullter Bluthe (syn.
        of Double Flowering Gage), 192

  Die grosse rothe Feigenpflaume (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Die grosse Weisse Glanzende (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Die grüne herzförmige Pflaume (syn. of Grüne Herzformige), 456

  _Die Hauszwetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Die Herrnpflaume (syn. of Orleans), 302

  Die Hyacinthenpflaume (syn. of Jacinthe), 471

  Die Isabelle (syn. of Isabella), 469

  Die Kaiserliche veilchenfarbige Pflaume (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum),
        325

  Die Kaiserliche Weisse Pflaume (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Die kleine Königin Claudia (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  Die kleine langlichte Damaskuspflaume (syn. of Damas Dronet), 426

  Die kleine Zwergpflaume (syn. of Zwergpflaume), 571

  Die Kleine Weisse Damascenerpflaume (syn. of Small White Damson),
        544

  _Die Königin_ (syn. of Mayer Konigspflaume), 493

  Die Königin Klaudia (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Die Königliche grosse Pflaume (syn. of Royal), 534

  Die königliche Pflaume von Tours (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  Die lange, grüne und grosses welsche Pflaume? (syn. of Quetsche
        Verte D’Italie), 525

  Die Morillenpflaume (syn. of Apricot), 148

  Die musquat Damaskuspflaume (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  Die Pflaume aus Cypern (syn. of Chypre), 418

  Die Pflaume ohne Stein (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  Die Rothe Eierflaume (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Die Rothe Eierflaume_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Die Rothe Kaiserpflaume (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Die rothe Rebhuhnpflaume (syn. of Red Perdrigon), 528

  _Die Scanarda_ (syn. of Scanarda), 540

  Die späte oder September Damaskpflaume (syn. of September Damask),
        542

  _Die Valienciennes_ (syn. of Valienciennes), 558

  Die veilchenfarbige Birnpflaume (syn. of Pear Plum), 513

  Die veilchenfarbige Damascenerpflaume (syn. of Damas Violet), 427

  Die Veischenfarbige Kaiserinnpflaume (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  Die violete Kaiserpflaume mit scheckichten Blattern (syn. of
        Imperial Violet), 467

  _Die Violette Diaprée_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  _Die Violette Kaiserpflaume_ (syn. of Violet Imperial), 559

  _Die Violette Königin Claudia_ (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  _Die Violette Königin Claudie_ (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  _Die Violette oder Blaue Reneclode_ (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  _Die Violette oder Blaue Renoclode_ (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  Die wälsche Damascene pflaume (syn. of Italian Damask), 470

  _Die Wangenheim_ (syn. of Wangenheim), 368

  Die Weisse Buntfarbige Pflaume (syn. of Diaprée Blanche), 432

  Die weisse Duranzen pflaume (syn. of White Perdrigon), 375

  Die Weisse Kaiserinnpflaume; _Die Weisse Kaiserpflaume_ (syns. of
        White Imperatrice), 375

  Die Zuckersüsse (syn. of Trauttenberg), 555

  Dieffenbachs Damascene; _Dieffenbachs Schwarze Damascene_ (syn. of
        Damas de Diffenbach), 426

  Diel Grosse Weisse Damascene, 432

  _Diel’s August Zwetsche_ (syn. of Wahre Frühzwetsche), 560

  _Diels Königpflaume_ or _Diel’s Königspflaume_ (syns. of Royal
        Tours), 332

  _Diffenbachs Damascene_ (syn. of Damas de Diffenbach), 426

  Dine, 433

  _D’Italie_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  Dittisham, 433

  Dixie, 433

  _Dobrowitzer Frühzwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche de Dobrowitz), 523

  Dochnahl Damascene, 433

  _Dochnahl’s Königs Pflaume_ (syn. of Dochnahl Damascene), 433

  Dodd, William, var. orig. by, 282

  _D’OEuf_; _D’OEuf Blanche_ (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _D’Oeuf Violette_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Dojene, 433

  Doles, A. H., var. orig. by, 519

  Dollaner, 433

  Dollaner Zwetsche (syn. of Dollaner), 433

  _Dolphin_ (syn. of Sharp, 340; of Victoria, 363)

  Domina, 433

  Domine Dull, 433

  Domine Dull’s; Domine Dull’s Plum (syns. of Domine Dull), 433

  _Domino_ (syn. of Domina), 433

  Don, 433

  Don Alteza, 433

  _Donauers Zusammen Gedrückte Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Aplatie), 523

  Don Carlos, 433

  Don Carlos’ (syn. of Don Carlos), 433

  Doppelte Mirabelle (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Dora, 433

  Dorée, 434

  _Dorée de Lawson_ (syn. of Lawson), 482

  Dorell, 434

  Dorell, Dr., var. orig. by, 434, 520

  Dorell Aprikosenpflaume, 434

  _Dorell’s Neue Aprikosen Pflaume_ (syn. of Dorell Aprikosenpflaume),
        434

  _Dorelle’s Neue Grosse Zwetsche_ or _New Purple Prune_; Dorells
        grosse neue Zwetsche, or _Grosse Zwetsche_, or _Neue Grosse
        Zwetsche_; Dorell’s Neue Purpur Zwetsche; _Dorrel_ (syns. of
        Dorell), 434

  Dörell’s Grosse Ungarische Pflaume (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  _Dorell’s Neue Weisse Diaprée_ (syn. of Wahre Weisse Diaprée), 561

  Doris, 434

  Dorr, 434

  Dorr, Elisha, var. orig. by, 461, 464, 562

  Dorr Seedling, 434

  Dorr’s Favorite (syn. of Dorr, 434; of Pond, 314)

  Dorsett, 434

  Dosch, 435

  Dosch, Henry E., var. orig. by, 435

  Double, 435

  _Double Blackpruim_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  _Double-blossomed_; Double-blossomed Plum (syns. of Double Flowering
        Gage), 192

  _Double Beurre Witte?_ (syn. of White Virginal), 565

  _Double Drap d’Or_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Double Flowering Gage, 192

  _Double Imperial Gage_ (syn. of Washington), 368

  _Double Mirabelle_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Double Plum, 435

  Dougall, James, var. orig. by, 435

  Dougall Best, 435

  Dougall’s Best (syn. of Dougall Best), 435

  _Douglas_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  _Douglas_ (syn. of Chabot), 172

  Douglass, 435

  Dove Bank, 435

  Dowling, Henry, var. orig. by, 395, 548, 567

  Downing, A. J., quoted, 519;
    var. orig. by, 443

  Downing, 193

  Downing Early, 435

  Downing’s Early (syn. of Downing Early), 435

  Downton Impératrice, 435

  Downton’s Kaiserin; _Downtoner Kaiserin_ (syns. of Downton
        Impératrice), 435

  Drake, George, var. orig. by, 436

  Drake Seedling, 436

  Drake’s Seedling (syn. of Drake Seedling), 436

  _Drap d’Or_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Drap d’Or_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Drap d’Or, 194

  _Drap d’Or d’Esperen_; _Esperen_, _of Esperen_, or of Esperin (syns.
        of Esperen), 206

  _Drap d’Or Pflaume_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Dr. Dennis_ (syn. of Dennis), 431

  Dronet Damask (syn. of Damas Dronet), 426

  Drouth King, 436

  Dr. Uff, 436

  Dr. Uff Szilvaja, 436

  Dry, var. orig. by, 436

  Dry Seedling, 436

  Dry’s Seedling (syn. of Dry Seedling), 436

  _Dschau Erik_ (syn. of Diel Grosse Weisse Damascene), 432

  Duane, 196

  Duane, James, var. orig. by, 197

  Duane’s French Purple, _Large Orleans_, _Large Purple_, or _Purple
        French_ (syns. of Duane), 196

  _Duane’s Purple_ (syn. of Duane, 196; of Peach, 309; of Smith
        Orleans, 348)

  Duboise, var. orig. by, 216

  _Duc d’Edinbourg_ (syn. of Duke of Edinburgh), 436

  _Duc de Waterloo_ (syn. of Waterloo Pflaume), 561

  Duke, 436

  Duke of Devonshire, 436

  Duke of Edinburgh, 436

  Dull, var. orig. by, 433

  Dumberline, 436

  Dumiron, 437

  Dummer, 436

  Dummer, var. orig. by, 437

  _Dunkelblaue Eierpflaume_ (syn. of Kaiser Wilhelm), 474

  Dunkelblaue Kaiserin, 437

  Dunlap, 437

  Dunlap, J. P., var. orig. by, 437

  Dunlap (syn. of Dunlap No. 1), 437

  Dunlap (No. 1) (syn. of Dunlap No. 1), 437

  Dunlap No. 1, 437

  Dunlap No. 2 (syn. of Dunlap), 437

  Dunlap’s No. 1 (syn. of Dunlap No. 1), 194

  Dunlap’s No. 2 (syn. of Dunlap), 437

  Dunlop, W. W., var. orig. by, 499, 500

  Dunlop Nut, 437

  _Dunlop 53_ (syn. of Raynes), 526

  _Dunlop 54_ (syn. of Mount Royal), 500

  _Dunmore_, 437

  _Dumore_ (syn. of Dunmore), 437

  Dupuis, August, var. orig. by, 394

  Durand, var. orig. by, 187

  Durazen Zwetsche, 437

  _Durchscheinende Reineclaude_ (syn. of Transparent), 360

  Durchsichtige (syn. of Transparente), 555

  Durham, Miss, var. orig. by, 287

  _Du Roi_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _Du Roi_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Dutch Plum_ or _Plumb_ (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Dutch Prune_ (syn. of Domine Dull, 433; of German Prune, 219)

  _Dutch Quetszen_ (syn. of Domine Dull), 433

  Dymond (syn. of Diamond), 191


  Eagle, 437

  _Earley’s November_ (syn. of Black Bullace), 161

  _Earliest of All_ (syn. of Earliest of All), 198

  Earliest of All, 198

  Early, 437

  Early Amber, 437

  _Early Apricot_ (syn. of Early Transparent Gage), 440

  Early Apricot, 437

  Early Apricot Plum (syn. of Early Apricot), 437

  _Early Bavay_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  _Early Black Damask_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Early Black Morocco_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  Early Blue, 438

  _Early Blue_ (syn. of Early Blue), 438

  _Early Bradshaw_ (syn. of Gerishes Seedling, 451; of Field, 208)

  Early Cherry, 438

  Early Cluster, 438

  Early Cross, 438

  _Early Damask_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Early Damask of Provence_ (syn. of Damas de Provence), 426

  _Early Damson_ (syn. of Damson, 186; of Horse, 464; of Morocco, 288;
        of Winter Damson, 567)

  Early Damson (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Early de Tours_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Early Favorite, 438

  _Early Favorite_, or _Favourite_ (syns. of Early Favorite), 438

  _Early Forcing_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  _Early Fruchtbare_ (syn. of Early Rivers), 200

  _Early Genesee_ (syn. of Henrietta Gage), 461

  Early Genesee, 438

  Early Golden (syn. of Early Golden Drop), 438

  Early Golden Drop, 438

  Early Green (syn. of Emerald), 442

  Early Green Gage? (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  Early Honey, 439

  _Early John_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Early Large Black_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  Early Minnesota, 439

  Early Mirabelle, 439

  _Early Monsieur_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Early Morocco_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  Early Normandy, 439

  _Early Orleans_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  Early Orleans, 198

  Early Pale, 439

  Early Pear, 439

  Early Perdrigon, 439

  _Early Prolific_ (syn. of Early Rivers), 200

  _Early Purple_ (syn. of Howell), 465

  Early Red, 439, 440

  Early Red Primordian (syn. of Red Primordian), 528

  Early Red Russian; _Early Red Russian No. 3_ (syns. of Early Red), 440

  _Early Rivers_ (syn. of Early Rivers), 200

  Early Rivers, 200

  Early Royal, 201

  _Early Royal_ (syn. of Early Royal), 201

  _Early Royal of Nikita_ (syn. of Early Royal of Nikita), 440

  Early Royal of Nikita, 440

  _Early Russian_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Early Scarlet_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Early Six Weeks (syn. of Six Weeks), 544

  Early St. John, 440

  Early Tours, 202

  _Early Tours_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Early Transparent; _Early Transparent Gage_ (syns. of Early
        Transparent Gage), 440

  Early Transparent Gage, 440

  _Early Violet_ (syn. of Early Tours, 202; of Violet, 559)

  _Early White Plum_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Early Yellow, 203

  _Early Yellow_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Early Yellow Gage, 440

  Early Yellow Prune, 440

  Eason, 441

  Eberly, 441

  Eberly’s Plum (syn. of Eberly), 441

  Ebert, Madame, var. orig. by, 430

  Ebon, 441

  _Echte Gelbe Eier Pflaume_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Echte Grosse Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Echte Hafer Pflaume_ or _Zwetsche_ (syns. of Haferpflaume), 458

  Eckenholm, M. Brahay, var. orig. by, 408

  Ecully, 441

  Eddie, 441

  Edith, 441

  _Edith of Terry_ (syn. of Julia), 473

  Edle Early, 441

  Edle Frühpflaume (syn. of Edle Early), 441

  _Edle Gelbe Eger Pflaume_; _Edle Gelbe Eier Pflaume_ (syns. of Yellow
        Egg), 386

  _Edle Königs Pflaume_ (syn. of Valienciennes), 558

  Edouard Seneclauze, 441

  Eggles, 441

  _Egg Plum_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Egger’sche Eier Zwetsche_ (syn. of Comte Gustave d’Egger), 422

  _Eier Pflaume_ (syn. of Blue Egg, 405; of Yellow Egg, 386)

  Eldora, 441

  Eldorado, 441

  Eldridge, 442

  _Elfreth’s Prune_ (syn. of Elfrey), 442

  Elfrey, 442

  _Elfrey’s Prune_; _Elfry’s Plum_ (syns. of Elfrey), 442

  Elisabeth Pflaume, 442

  _Elisabeth d’Elsner_ (syn. of Elisabeth Pflaume), 442

  Ella, 442

  Elliott, quoted, 256

  Ellis, 442

  Ellwood, 442

  Elmore, 442

  _El Paso_ (syn. of Beaty), 400

  Elsner Grüne Zwetsche, 442

  _Elsner’s Elisabeth Pflaume_ (syn. of Elisabeth Pflaume), 442

  _Elsner’s Von Gronow Grüne Zwetsche_ (syn. of Elsner Grüne Zwetsche),
        442

  Elton, 442

  Elwood (syn. of Ellwood), 442

  Emerald, 442

  Emerald Drop, 443

  Emerson, 443

  _Emerson’s Early_ (syn. of Emerson), 443

  Emerson Yellow, 443

  Emigrant, 443

  Emily May, 443

  Emma, 443

  Empereur, 443

  _Empereur de Mas_ (syn. of Empereur), 443

  _Empereur de Sharp_ (syn. of Sharp), 340

  _Empereur du Japan_ (syn. of Emperor of Japan), 443

  Emperor (syn. of Denbigh, 430; of Goliath, 231)

  Emperor of Japan, 443

  _Emperor of Japan_ (syn. of Emperor of Japan), 443

  Empire, 203

  Empire State (syn. of Empire), 203

  _Empress_ (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  Engre, 206

  Engle, 443

  Englebert, 204

  _Englebert_ (syn. of Englebert), 204

  Englische Zwetsche (syn. of Large English), 262

  _English Orleans_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  English Pond’s Seedling (syn. of Pond), 314

  _English Pond’s Seedling_ (syn. of Duane), 196

  English Wheat (syn. of Wheat), 563

  _English Yellow Gage_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  _Enkelde Backspruim_; _Enkelde Blackpruim_ (syns. of German Prune),
        219

  _Epine noire_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  _Erby September_ (syn. of Irby), 468

  Esjum Erik, 443

  Esperen, 206

  Esperen’s Goldpflaume (syn. of Esperen), 206

  Esperin, Major, var. orig. by, 156, 207

  Essex Bullace, 444

  Esslinger Frühzwetsche, 444

  Esther, 444

  Etendard d’ Angleterre (syn. of Standard), 548

  Etopa, 444

  Etta, 444

  Eugen Fürst; Eugene Fürst (syns. of Fürst Damson), 448

  _Eugen Fürsts Frühzwetsche_ (syn. of Furst), 217

  Eureka, 444

  _Eureka_ (syn. of Wickson), 376

  _European Cherry Plum_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Eva, 444

  Evelyn, 444

  Excelsior, 207

  Excelsior Damson, 444

  Exoascus, diseases caused by, 127, 128


  Fairchild, 444

  Fairchild, J. A., var. orig. by, 546

  _Fair’s Golden_ or _Golden Drop_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 228

  _Farleigh Prolific_ (syn. of Crittenden), 184

  Fancy, 445

  Fanning, 445

  Farleigh (syn. of Crittenden), 184

  _Farleigh Castle_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Farleigh Damson (syn. of Crittenden), 184

  _Fausse Altesse_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  _Favorite de Buel_ (syn. of Buel), 411

  _Favorite de Lawrence_ (syn. of Lawrence), 266

  _Favorite d’Howard_ (syn. of Howard), 464

  _Favorite Hâtive_, Précoce, _Précoce de Rivers_ (syns. of Early
        Favorite), 438

  Favorite Pourpre (syn. of Purple Favorite), 521

  Fawn, 445

  _Feine Damascene_ (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  Feine Und Gute (syn. of Fine Bonté), 445

  Fell, quoted, 387

  _Fellemberg_ (syn. of German Prune, 219; of Italian Prune, 253)

  _Fellenberg_; _Fellenberg Quetsche_; _Fellenberger Zwetsche_;
        _Fellenburg_; _Feltemberg_ (syns. of Italian Prune), 253

  Femmons, Frank, var. orig. by, 445

  Femmonzi, 445

  _Fertheringham_ (syn. of Belgian Purple), 157

  Fertile Bleue (syn. of Blue Prolific), 406

  _Fertile Précoce_ (syn. of Early Rivers), 200

  Fertilizers, use and value of, 121, 122

  Field, 207

  Field Marshall, 445

  Figue Grosse Rouge, 445

  Figue Grose Rouge (syn. of Red Date), 322

  _Figue Grosse Rouge_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Fin de Siecle, 445

  Fine Bonté, 445

  Fine Early Plum, 445

  Firba Königspflaume, 445

  Firbas Frühe Schuttenhoferin, 446

  First, 446

  First Best, 446

  First Sweet, 446

  Fisher, J. E., var. orig. by, 365

  Fitze, Charles G., var. orig. by, 274

  Fitzhugh, William, quoted, 85

  Fitzroy, 446

  Flora Plena, 446

  _Florence_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  _Flotows Allerfrüheste Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle de Flotow), 497

  Fluke, N. K., var. orig. by, 394, 429, 477

  Flushing Bulleis, 446

  _Flushing Gage_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  Foderingham; Foderingham Plum (syns. of Fotheringham), 212

  _Foliage Plum_ (syn. of Vesuvius), 559

  _Fondante Noire_ (syn. of Frühe Leipziger Damascene), 448

  _Fonthill_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Foote, 446

  Foote, Asahel, var. orig. by, 440, 446

  _Foote’s Early Orleans_ (syn. of Foote), 446

  Foote Golden Gage, 446

  Forest Garden, 209

  Forest Rose, 210

  Forest Rose Improved, 447

  Forewattamie, 447

  Formosa, 447

  Forward Damask, 447

  Fotheringay (syn. of Fotheringham), 212

  Fotheringham, 212

  _Fourth of July_ (syn. of Lovett), 486

  _Fourth of July_ (syn. of Marble), 490

  _Francfort Peach_; Frankfurter Pfirschen Zwetsche (syns. of Frankfort
        Peach), 447

  Frankfort Peach, 447

  _Frankfurter Pflaume_ (syn. of Rudolph), 536

  Frankland, Thomas, var. orig. by, 396

  Franklin, 447

  _Franklin_ (syn. of Washington), 368

  Fraser, 447

  Fraser, John, var. orig. by, 447

  Fraser’s Early Yellow (syn. of Fraser), 447

  _Frauendorfer Frühe Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Précoce De
        Frauendorf), 524

  Freeman, 212, 447

  Freeman, var. orig. by, 212

  Freeman’s Favorite (syn. of Freeman), 447

  _Free Silver_ (syn. of Terry), 552

  Freestone, 213, 447, 448.

  _Freestone Damson_ (syn. of Freestone), 213

  Freestone Goose, 448

  Freestone Quetsche, 448

  French, 214

  _French_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _French Apricot_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _French Copper_ (syn. of Copper), 183

  _French Damson_ (syn. of French), 214

  _French Orleans_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _French Prune_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _French Royal_ (syn. of Royal), 534

  _French St. Julien_ (syn. of Saint Julien), 335

  _Freudenberger Früh Pflaume_ (syn. of Précoce de Freudenberg), 517

  _Friars_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  _Friar’s Plum_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  Friedheim Damascene, 448

  _Friedheim’s Rote Früh Damascene_ (syn. of Friedheim Damascene), 448

  Fritze Herrnpflaume, 448

  Frogmore, 215

  Frogmore Damson; Frogmore Prolific Damson (syns. of Frogmore), 215

  Froment American (syn. of American Wheat), 395

  Frost Gage, 216

  _Frost Plum_ (syn. of Frost Gage, 216; of White Damson, 374)

  Frostproof, 448

  _Frühe Aprikosenpflaume_ (syn. of Early Apricot), 437

  Frühe Dattelzwetsche (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Frühe Englische Zwetsche, 448

  _Frühe Fruchtbare_ (syn. of Early Rivers), 200

  _Frühe Gelbe Kaiser Pflaume_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Frühe Gelbe Kaiser Pflaume_ (syn. of Frühe Gelbe Reine Claude), 448

  Frühe Gelbe Reine Claude, 448

  _Frühe Gelbe Reine Claude_ (syn. of Transparente), 555

  _Frühe Gemeine Zwetsche_ (syn. of Wahre Frühzwetsche), 560

  _Frühe Grosse Schwarze Pflaume_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  Frühe Grüne Zwetsche, 448

  _Frühe Haus Zwetsche_ (syn. of Wahre Frühzwetsche), 560

  _Frühe Herrnpflaume_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Frühe Herrn Pflaume_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  Frühe Herrnpflaume (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Frühe Herrnpflaume_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Frühe Herzogspflaume_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Frühe Königspflaume_ (syn. of Royale Hâtive de Liegel), 535

  _Frühe Königspflaume von Nikita_ (syn. of Early Royal of Nikita), 440

  Frühe Leipziger Damascene, 448

  _Frühe Nikitaer Königspflaume_ (syn. of Early Royal of Nikita), 440

  _Frühe Platte Damascene_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Frühe Reine-Claude_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  Früher Perdrigon; Früher Violetter Perdrigon (syns. of Early
        Perdrigon), 439

  _Frühe Schwarze Pflaume_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  Frühe Schwarze Pflaume (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Frühe Treibzwetsche_; _Frühe Treib Zwetsche_ (syns. of Red Magnum
        Bonum), 325

  Frühe von Bergthold (syn. of Early Mirabelle), 439

  _Frühe Weisse Aprikosenpflaume_ (syn. of Diel Grosse Weisse
        Damascene), 432

  _Frühe Zwetsche_ (syn. of Wahre Frühzwetsche), 560

  _Früh Zwetsche_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  _Frühzwetsche mit Silberblatt_ (syn. of Quetsche à feuille argentée),
        523

  _Frühzwetsche von Buhlerthal_ (syn. of Quetsche Précoce de
        Buhlerthal), 524

  Fuller, 448

  Fuller’s Egg (syn. of Fuller), 448

  Fulton, 448

  Funk, 448

  Funk, J. M., var. orig. by, 448

  Funk’s Early (syn. of Funk), 448

  Furst, 217

  Fürst Damson, 448

  _Fürstenzeller Pflaume_; _Fürstenzeller Reine-Claude_ (syns. of Red
        Apricot), 321

  _Fürsten Zwetsche_; _Fürstenzwetsche_ (syns. of Imperatrice), 249

  Fürst’s Damson (syn. of Fürst Damson), 448

  Fürst’s Frühzwetsche (syn. of Furst), 217

  _Furugiya_ (syn. of Chabot), 172


  Gabriel Combes, 449

  _Gage Verte_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Galbraith, 449

  Galbraith, var. orig. by, 449

  Gale, 449

  Galena, 449

  _Gale Seedling_ (syn. of Gale), 449

  _Gale’s No. 3_ (syn. of Gale), 449

  Gallesio, quoted, 28

  Galopin, 449

  Galopin, M., var. orig. by, 564

  Garden King, 449

  Garfield, 449

  Garlick, 450

  Garlick’s Early (syn. of Garlick), 450

  _Garnet_ (syn. of Occident), 295

  Garnet, 450

  Garriel, var. orig. by, 351

  _Garten Pflaume_ or _Zwetsche_ (syns. of Quetsche Maraichère), 524

  Gates, 450

  Gaunt, 450

  Gaviota, 450

  Gaylord, 450

  Gaylord, Edson, var. orig. by, 395, 453

  Gaylord Gold, 450

  _Gelbe Apricosenartige Pflaume_; Gelbe Aprikosenpflaume; _Gelbe
        Dauphins_ (syns. of Apricot), 148

  _Gelbe Catharinenpflaume_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Gelbe Damascener Pflaume, 450

  _Gelbe Eger Pflaume_; _Gelbe Egg_; _Gelbe Eierpflaume_ (syns. of
        Yellow Egg), 386

  _Gelbe frühe Pflaume_; _Gelbe Frühzeitige_ (syns. of Early Yellow),
        203

  _Gelbe Frühzwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Jaune Précoce), 524

  Gelbe Herrn Pflaume (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  Gelbe Jerusalempflaume, 450

  _Gelbe Katharinenpflaume_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Gelbe Kirschpflaume, 450

  _Gelbe Malonke_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Gelbe Marunke_ (syn. of Weisse Kaiserin, 563; of Yellow Egg, 386)

  _Gelbe Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Gelber Bidling_ (syn. of Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling), 451

  _Gelbe Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Gelbe Reneclode Mit Gefullter Bluthe_ (syn. of Double Flowering
        Gage), 192

  Gelbe Spatzwetsche, 451

  _Gelbe Ungarische Eier Pflaume_; _Gelbe Ungarische Eyerpflaume_
        (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Gem, 451

  _Gemeine Hauszwetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling, 451

  _Gemeine Zwetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  General Brock (syn. of Brock), 410

  Gen. Hand; _General Hand_; Genl. Hand (syns. of Hand), 239

  _General Jackson_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  Gentleman, 451

  Georgeson, 217

  Georgeson, C. C., quoted, 55

  _Georg IV_ (syn. of Rigny), 532

  Georgia, 451

  Geperlte Mirabelle (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  Gerard, quoted, 162

  Gerishes Seedling, 451

  _German Gage_ (syn. of Bleeker), 163

  German Plum (syn. of German Prune), 219

  German Prune, 219

  _German Prune_ (syn. of Domine Dull, 433; of German Prune, 219; of
        Italian Prune, 253)

  _German Prune Seedling_ (syn. of Mankato), 489

  _German Quetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Gersepflaume, 451

  Geuii (syn. of Gueii), 234

  Ghiston, 451

  Ghiston’s Early (syn. of Ghiston), 451

  Giant, 222

  _Giant Prune_ (syn. of Giant), 222

  Gibb, Charles, var. orig. by, 395, 483

  Gibson, 451

  Gibson, W. L., var. orig. by, 451

  Gideon, Peter M., var. orig. by, 470

  Gifford, var. introduced by, 261

  Gifford’s Lafayette (syn. of Lafayette), 261

  Gill, 451

  _Gillett_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  Gisborne, 451

  _Gisborne’s_; _Gisborne’s Early_; _Gisborne’s Zwetsche_ (syns. of
        Gisborne), 451

  Glaister, 452

  _Glanzende Gelbe Mirabelle_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Glass, 223

  Glass, Alexander, var. orig. by, 224

  _Glass Seedling_ (syn. of Glass), 223

  Gloire de Louveciennes, 452

  _Gloire de New York_ (syn. of Hulings), 245

  _Gloire de Schöneberg_ (syn. of Belle de Schöneberg), 401

  Gloire d’Epinay, 452

  Gloria, 452

  Gloucestershire Violet, 452

  Glow, 452

  _Gluhende Kohle_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  G. No. 4, 452

  G. No. 44 Jones (unpublished) (syn. of G. No. 4), 452

  Goff, 452

  Goff, Emmett Stull, life of, 355-356

  Gold, 452

  _Gold_ (syn. of Golden), 224

  Gold Coin, 453

  Gold Colored, 453

  Golden, 224

  Golden (syn. of Golden Prune), 453

  Golden (syn. of Gold), 452

  Golden Beauty, 226

  Golden Cherry, 228

  Golden Cherry Plum (syn. of Golden Cherry), 228

  Golden Cluster, 453

  Golden Drop, 228

  _Golden Drop_; _Golden Drop Plum_; _Golden Gage_ (syns. of Golden
        Drop), 228

  _Golden Esperen_ (syn. of Esperen), 206

  Golden Esperen Plum (syn. of Esperen), 206

  Golden Gage, 453

  _Golden Gage Lawson_ (syn. of Lawson), 482

  Golden Gem, 453

  Golden Prolific, 453

  Golden Prune, 453

  Golden Queen, 453

  Golden Transparent, 453

  _Gold Pflaume_; _Goldfarbige Pflaume_ (syns. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Goldsmith, 454

  Goldsmith’s Vienna (syn. of Goldsmith), 454

  _Goldstoff_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Goldzeng_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Goliath_ (syn. of Goliath, 231; of Nectarine, 291)

  Goliath, 231

  Gondin, 454

  Gonne, 454

  Gonne, Dr., var. orig. by, 454

  _Gonne’s Green Gage_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  Gonne’s Rothe Pflaume (syn. of Gonne), 454

  _Gonzales_ (syn. of Gonzales), 232

  Gonzales, 232

  Goose-Dye, 454

  Goose-O, 454

  Goose Plum, 59

  Gordon, 454

  Gordon, J. K., var. orig. by, 410, 564

  Gordon Castle, 454

  _Gordon No. 3_ (syn. of Gordon), 454

  _Goring’s Golden Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Gorman, 454

  Gorrie, Archibald, var. orig. by, 482

  Gough, quoted, 164

  Goutte d’Or, 228; _Goutte d’Or de Coe_, 229 (syns. of Golden Drop)

  _Goutte d’Or Violette_ (syn. of Coe Violet), 420

  Goutte Emeraude (syn. of Emerald Drop), 443

  Govalle, 454

  Grace, 454

  Grace, W. R., var. orig. by, 454

  _Graf Althann’s Reine-Claude_; _Graf Althan’s Reine-Claude_ (syns. of
        Altham), 141

  Graf Gustav von Egger (syn. of Comte Gustave d’Egger), 422

  _Grand-Duc_ (syn. of Grand Duke), 233

  Grand Duke, 233

  Grand Précoce, 454

  Graugrüne Frühpflaume, 455

  Gray, quoted, 99

  Gray Damask, 455

  Grayson, 455

  Great Bearer, 455

  _Great Damask Violet of Tours_ (syn. of Gros Damas de Tours), 456

  Great Date (syn. of Date), 428

  _Great Green Damask_; _Great Green Damaski_ (syns. of Reine Claude),
        327

  _Great Imperial Plum_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Great Mogul (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Great Plum of Tours; Great Violet Damask de Tours; Great Violet Tours
        Damask (syns. of Gros Damas de Tours), 456

  _Great Queen Claudia_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Great Whitton_ (syn. of Wheat), 563

  Greeley (syn. of Greely), 455

  Greely, 455

  Greely, Captain Eliphalet, var. orig. by, 455

  Green Damask (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  Greene, quoted, 77

  Greenfield, 455

  Greenfield, var. orig. by, 455

  Green Gage (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Green Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude Group), 27

  Green Indian, 455

  Green Italian, 455

  Green Oysterly, 455

  Green Perdrigon, 455

  Green Pescod, 455

  _Green Spanish_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Gregoire, M., var. orig. by, 412

  Grelck, John, var. orig. by, 455

  Grelck, 455

  Gridley, var. orig. by, 553

  Griesa, A. H., var. orig. by, 512

  _Grimwood Early Orleans_; _Grimwood’s Early Orleans_ (syns. of Early
        Orleans), 198

  Groot, S. C., var. introduced by, 320

  Gros Damas; _Gros Damas de Tours_; _Gros Damas Violet de Tours_
        (syns. of Gros Damas de Tours), 456

  _Gros Damas Blanc_ (syn. of Large White Damson), 480

  Gros Damas de Tours (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Gros Damas de Tours, 456

  Gros Damas Noir, 456

  _Gros Damas rouge tardif_ (syn. of Late Red Damask), 481

  _Gros Damas Vert_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Gros Luisante_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Gros Prune_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Gros Reine-Claude (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Gros Rouge de Septembre_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  _Gros Saint-Julien_ (syn. of Saint Julien), 335

  _Gros-Damas Blanc_ (syn. of Diel Grosse Weisse Damascene), 432

  _Grosse à sécher de Knight_ (syn. of Large Green Drying), 479

  _Grosse Blaue Eier Pflaume_ (syn. of Blue Egg), 405

  _Grosse Blaue Zwetsche Von der Worms_ (syn. of Zwetsche Von der
        Worms), 572

  _Grosse Damascene von Tours_ (syn. of Gros Damas de Tours), 456

  Grosse Datte (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Grosse De Cooper (syn. of Cooper), 423

  _Grosse Englische Pflaumen Zwetsche_; _Grosse Englische Zwetsche_
        (syns. of Large English), 262

  _Grosse Früh Pflaume_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  _Grosse Früh Zwetsche_ (syn. of Hungarian, 246; of Italian Prune,
        253; of Red Magnum Bonum, 325)

  _Grosse Gelbe Dattel Pflaume_; Grosse Gelbe Dattel Zwetsche (syns. of
        Weisse Kaiserin), 563

  _Grosse Gelbe Eier Pflaume_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Grosse German Prune_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Grosse Glanzende_; _Grosse Glanzende Alberts Pflaume_; _Grosse
        Glanzende Pflaume_ (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Grosse Grüne Pflaume_ (syn. of Isle-Verte), 470

  _Grosse Grüne Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Grosse Hâtive de Rodt, 456

  _Grosse Hâtive de Rodt_ (syn. of Rodt Frühe Grosse Pflaumenzwetsche),
        533

  _Grosse Hauspflaume_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Grosse Königin Claudiapflaume (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Grosse-Luisante_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Grosse Marange, 456

  _Grosse Maronke_; _Grosse Marouk_; _Grosse Marunke_ (syns. of Yellow
        Egg), 386

  _Grosse Mirabelle_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Grosse Mirabelle Drap d’Or_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Grosse noir de Montreuil_; Grosse Noire hâtive (syns. of Noire de
        Montreuil), 504

  _Grosse Prune Blanche_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Grosse Prune d’Agen_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  _Grosse prune d’Inde rouge_ (syn. of Indian), 468

  Grosse Prunelle Nouvelle (syn. of New Large Bullace), 503

  Grosse Quetsche De Dorell; _Grosse Quetsche Nouvelle_ (syns. of
        Dorell), 434

  _Grosse Reine_; _Grosse Reine-Claude_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  Grosse Reine-Claude Verte De Berlepsch (syn. of Berlepsch), 402

  Grosse Rosspauke, 456

  _Grosse Rote Feigen Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  _Grosse rouge de Cooper_ (syn. of Cooper), 423

  Grosse Schwarze Kaiser Pflaume (syn. of Bradshaw), 166

  Grosse Surpasse, 456

  _Grosse u. Lange Früh Zwetsche_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Grosse Ungarische Zwetsche_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Grosse Violette de Grugliasco, 456

  _Grosse Weisse Glanzende_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Grosse Zuckerzwetsche (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  _Grosse Zwetsche_ (syn. of Large English), 262

  Grossherzog’s Pflaume (syn. of Grand Duke), 233

  _Groundacre_ (syn. of Gundaker Prune), 457

  _Grove House Purple_ (syn. of Fotheringham), 212

  _Grüne Abrikose_ or _Aprikose_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Grüne Dattelzwetsche (syn. of Grüne Dattel Zwetsche), 456

  Grüne Dattel Zwetsche, 456

  _Grüne Eierpflaume_ (syn. of Quetsche Verte D’Italie), 525

  Grüne Herzformige, 456

  _Grüne Inselpflaume_ (syn. of Isle-Verte), 470

  _Grüne Insel Pflaume_ (syn. of Grüne Dattel Zwetsche), 456

  _Grüne Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle Verte), 497

  _Grüne Reineclaude_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Grüne Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Verte D’Italie), 525

  Grüne Zwetsche Von Monrepos, 456

  _Grünliche Dattel Pflaume von Besançon_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Gueii, 234

  _Gueii_; _Guii_ (syns. of Gueii), 234

  Guilford No. 2, 456

  Guimaraen, 457

  Guinea Egg, 457

  Gundaker, 457

  Gundaker, Samuel E., var. orig. by, 457

  Gundaker Prune, 457

  _Gus Erik_ (syn. of Nikitaer Blaue Frühzwetsche), 504

  _Gute Grüne_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Gute Kathe_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Guthries Taybank (syn. of Taybank), 551

  Guthrie, Charles, var. orig. by, 236, 397, 457, 551

  Guthrie Apricot, 457

  Guthrie Green (syn. of Guthrie Late), 236

  Guthrie Late, 236

  Guthrie Russet, 457

  Guthrie Topaz, 457

  _Guthrie’s Apricot_; Guthrie’s Apricot Plum; _Guthrie’s Golden_;
        Guthrie’s New Apricot (syns. of Guthrie Apricot), 457

  _Guthrie’s Aunt Ann_ (syn. of Aunt Ann), 397

  _Guthrie’s Late Green_; Guthrie’s Minette (syns. of Guthrie Late), 236

  _Guthrie’s Russet_ (syn. of Guthrie Russet), 457

  _Guthrie’s Topaz_ (syn. of Guthrie Topaz), 457

  Gwalsh, 457

  _Gweii_ (syn. of Gueii), 234


  Haag, 458

  _Haber Pflaume_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  Hackl, Prof. Pater, var. orig. by, 217

  Hackl Grosse Zwetsche, 458

  Haferpflaume, 458

  _Hafer Schlehe_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Haferkrieche_ (syn. of Damas Rouge Hâtif), 427

  Haffner Herbstpflaume, 458

  Haffner Königspflaume, 458

  Hagaman, var, orig. by, 235

  _Hahnenhode_ (syn. of Nikitaer Hahnenpflaume), 504

  Hakluyt, quoted, 164

  Haku Botan, 458

  Hale, 236

  _Hale_ (syn. of Late Blood), 480

  Hallenbeck, 458

  Hallenbeck, Henry, var. orig. by, 458

  Halcyon, 458

  Hammer, 238

  Hammond, quoted, 75

  _Hampton Court_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  Hancock, Thomas, var. orig. by, 457

  Hand, 239

  Hand, General, var. orig. by, 240

  Hanford, 458

  Hanford’s Orleans (syn. of Hanford), 458

  Hanska, 458

  Hanson, 458

  Hanson, N. E., quoted, 116, 117;
    var. orig. by, 417, 419, 444, 458, 468, 474, 489, 509, 539, 544, 561,
          567, 571

  Happiness, 458

  Hardow, P. L., var. orig. by, 296

  Hare, Thomas, var. orig. by, 209

  Harlow, 458

  Harlow, S. C., var. orig. by, 458

  Harney, 459

  Harper, 459

  Harper (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  Harper’s (syn. of Harper), 459

  Harriet, 241, 459

  Harris, 459

  Harrison, 459

  _Harrison’s Peach_ (syn. of Harrison), 459

  Hart, 459

  Hart, H., var. orig. by, 459

  _Hart Prune_ (syn. of Bradshaw), 166

  _Hart’s De Soto_ (syn. of Hart), 459

  Hartwick, 459

  Hartwiss, 459

  _Hartwiss Gelbe Zwetsche_; Hartwiss Yellow Prune (syns. of Hartwiss),
        459

  Harvest, 460

  _Harvest Gage_ (syn. of Yellow Gage), 388

  Hathen’s Red Gage (syn. of Altham), 141

  _Hâtive d’Augny_ (syn. of Grosse Marange), 456

  _Hâtive de Tours_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Hattan_; Hattankin No. 2; _Hattonkin_; _Hattonkin No. 2_;
        _Hattankio_; _Hattankio No. 2_; _Hattankio Oblong_;
        _Hytan-Kayo_; _Hytankio_ (syns. of Kerr), 259

  _Hattankin No. 1_ (syn. of Georgeson), 218

  _Hattonkin_ (syn. of Georgeson), 218

  _Hattankio_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  _Hattonkin No. 1_ (syn. of Georgeson), 218

  _Hattankio_ (syn. of Georgeson), 218

  _Hattankio_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  _Hattankio_ (syn. of Kelsey), 258

  _Hattankio No. 1_ (syn. of Georgeson), 218

  Hattie, 460

  _Hauptmann Kirchhof’s Pflaume_ (syn. of Capitaine Kirchhof), 414

  _Hauspflaume_; _Hauszwetsche_ (syns. of German Prune), 219

  Hawkeye, 242

  Hayden, E. L., var. orig. by, 441

  Hayo-Simoni, 460

  Hazard, 460

  Hazelton, D. C., var. orig. by, 140

  Heaton, 460

  Hector, 460

  Heep, 460

  Heideman, C. W. H., var. orig. by, 294, 415

  _Heideman Sand Cherry_ (syn. of Compass), 182

  Heikes, 460

  Heine Superbe, 460

  Helen, 460

  Helen’s Seedling (syn. of Helen), 460

  Hendrick, 460

  Hendrick’s (syn. of Hendrick), 460

  _Henrietta Gage_ (syn. of Henrietta Gage), 461

  Henrietta Gage, 461

  Henry Clay, 461

  Herbst Kriecke, 461

  Herbstpflaume, 461

  _Herbstpflaume_ (syn. of Prune d’Automne), 520

  Herbst Reine Claude (syn. of Autumn Gage), 398

  Hereford Damson, 461

  Herefordshire Prune, 461

  Heron, 461

  Heroy, 461

  Herren, 461

  _Herrnpflaume_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Herrenhäuser Blaue Eier Pflaume_ (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  Herrnhauser Doppelte Mirabelle (syn. of Mirabelle Double de
        Herrenhausen), 497

  Herzformige Pflaume, 461

  _Herzog von Orleans_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  Heupflaume, 461

  _Herr Pflaume_ (syn. of Frühe Grüne Zwetsche), 448

  Hiawatha, 461

  _Hick’s large Egg?_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Higginson, Francis, quoted, 20, 93

  Highland, 461

  Highlander, 462

  Hilda No. 5, 462

  Hillside, 462

  Hilltop, 462

  Hilman, 462

  Hinckley, M. E., var. orig. by, 490, 515

  _Hinckley_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  Hinkley, 462

  Hlubeck Aprikosenpflaume, 462

  Hoag’s Seedling, 462

  Hoffman, 462

  Hoffman, Ernest, var. orig. by, 533

  Hofinger Mirabelle, 462

  _Hofinger’s Rote Mirabelle_ (syn. of Hofinger Mirabelle), 462

  Hog, 462

  Hogg, John A., quoted, 200, 260, 363, 364, 432;
    var. orig. by, 432

  Hog Plum, 59

  _Hoheitspflaume_ (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  _Hoheits Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Holister_ (syn. of Hollister), 463

  Holister, var. orig. by, 463

  Holland, 462, 463

  _Holland Plum_; _Holland Prune_ (syns. of Holland), 462

  Hollister, 463

  Holman, D. S., var. orig. by, 463

  Holman Prune, 463

  Holme, 463

  Holmes Early Blue (syn. of Holme), 463

  Holt, B. J., var. orig. by, 463

  Holt, 463

  Holton, Warren, var. orig. by, 442

  Homestead, 463

  Honey, 463

  _Honey Drop_ (syn. of Golden Beauty), 226

  _Honey Grove_ (syn. of Sanders), 538

  Honey Julian, 463

  _Honsmomo_ (syn. of Berger, 160; of Satsuma, 337)

  Hon-smomo (syn. of Chabot), 172

  Hoo Green Gage, 463

  Hooker, quoted, 37

  Hoosier, 463

  Horemoritzer Reine Claude, 463

  Horrigan, 463

  Horse, 464

  _Horse Gage_ (syn. of Horse Jag), 464

  Horse Jag, 464

  Horse Plum, 59

  _Horse Plum_ (syn. of Horse), 464

  Hoskins, 464

  Hoskins, var. orig. by, 464

  Houston County, 464

  Hovey, C. M., quoted, 167, 229

  How, Hall J., var. orig. by, 464

  Howard, 464

  _Howard’s Favorite_ (syn. of Howard), 464

  Howe, 464

  Howell, 465

  Howell’s Early (syn. of Howell), 465

  _Howell’s Large_ (syn. of Nectarine, 291; of Peach, 309)

  _Howel’s_ (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  How Amber, 464

  How’s Amber (syn. of How Amber), 464

  Hoyo Smomo, 465

  Hoyt, R. D., var. orig. by, 446

  H. T. S. 84,761, 465

  Huankume, 465

  Hudson, 243

  Hudson, quoted, 93

  _Hudson_; _Hudson Gage_; _Hudson’s gelbe Frühpflaume_ (syns. of
        Hudson Gage), 465

  Hudson Gage, 465

  Hudson River Purple; _Hudson River Purple Egg_ (syns. of Hudson), 243

  Hughes, 465

  _Hughes Late_ (syn. of Tecumseh), 552

  Hulings, 245

  _Huling’s Reine Claude_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Huling’s Reine-Claudia_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Huling’s Superb_ (syn. of Hulings), 245

  Hungarian, 245

  _Hungarian_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Hungarian (syn. of Ungarish), 361

  Hungarian Date (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Hungarian Musk Prune, 465

  Hungarian No. 1, 465

  Hungarian No. 2, 466

  _Hungarian Plum_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Hungarian Prune (syn. of Hungarian, 246; of Pond, 314; of Ungarish,
        361)

  Hungarica (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Hungary (syn. of Ungarish), 361

  Hunn, 466

  Hunt, 466

  Hunt, Henry, var. orig. by, 466

  Hunt, R. A., var. orig. by, 491

  Hunt De Soto, 466

  Hunt’s De Soto (syn. of Hunt De Soto), 466

  _Hyacinth_; _Hyacinthe Pflaume_ (syns. of Jacinthe), 471

  _Hytankayo_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  _Hytankayo_ (syn. of Chabot), 172

  _Hytankayo_ (syn. of Red June), 324

  _Hytan-Kayo_ (syn. of Kerr), 259

  _Hytankio_ (syn. of Kerr), 259


  Ickworth, 247

  _Ickworth Imperatrice_ (syn. of Ickworth), 247

  Ida, 466

  _Ida Gage_; _Ida Green Gage_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  Ida Green Gage, 466

  _Idal_ (syn. of Idall), 466

  Idall, 466

  _Idol_ (syn. of Idall), 466

  _Ienua_ (syn. of Date), 428

  _Ilevert_; _Ile Vert_; _Ile vert_; _Ille verte_; _Illvert_ (syns. of
        Isle-Verte), 470

  _Illinois Ironclad_ (syn. of Ironclad), 469

  _Illinois Plum_ (syn. of Langsdon), 479

  Impératrice, 248

  _Impératrice_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Impératrice_; Impératrice Blue; _Impératrice Violette_ (syns. of
        Impératrice), 249

  _Impératrice Blanche_ (syn. of White Impératrice), 375

  Impératrice group, 33

  _Impératrice Ickworth_ (syn. of Ickworth), 247

  _Impératrice Jaune_ (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  Impératrice Jckworth (syn. of Ickworth), 247

  _Impératrice Violette_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Impératrice Violette Grosse_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Imperial_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Imperial, 466

  _Imperial Blanc_; _Imperiale Blanche_; (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Imperial de Sharp_ (syn. of Sharp, 340; of Victoria, 363)

  _Imperial Diadem_; _Imperial Diademe_ (syns. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Imperial Jaune_ (syn. of Weisse Kaiserin), 563

  Imperial Epineuse, 250

  Imperial Epineux (syn. of Imperial Epineuse), 250

  Imperial Gage, 251

  _Imperial Gage_ (syn. of Washington), 368

  _Imperial Gage_; _Imperial Green Gage_ (syns. of Imperial Gage), 251

  _Imperial jaune_ (syn. of Yellow Imperial), 569

  _Imperiall_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Imperial Ottoman, 467

  _Imperial Ottoman_ (syn. of Imperial Ottoman), 467

  Imperial Purple, 467

  _Imperial Purple_ (syn. of Imperial Purple), 467

  _Imperial Rouge_; _Imperial Violet_ (syns. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Imperial Violet, 467

  Imperial Washington, 467

  _Impériale_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Impériale Alexandrina, 466

  Impériale à Petit Fruit Violet (syn. of Imperial Violet), 467

  _Impériale Blanche_ (syn. of Quetsch, Dr. Létricourt, 524; of Yellow
        Egg, 386)

  _Impériale de Mann_ (syn. of Brandy Gage), 408

  Impériale de Milan, 467

  _Impériale Ottomane_ (syn. of Imperial Ottoman), 467

  Imperiale de Sharp (syn. of Sharp), 340

  Impériale de Turquie (syn. of Imperial Ottoman), 467

  _Impériale Hâtive_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 325

  Impériale jaune (syn. of Yellow Imperial), 569

  _Impériale Rouge_; _Impériale Violette_ (syns. of Red Magnum Bonum),
        325

  _Impériale Violette_ (syn. of Violet Imperial), 559

  Impériale Violette à feuilles panachees (syn. of Imperial Violet), 467

  Improved French Prune, 467

  Incomparable, 467

  Incomparable de Lucombe (syn. of Lucombe), 271

  _Incomparable Prune_ (syn. of Incomparable), 467

  Indian, 468

  Indian Chief, 468

  Indiana, 468

  _Indiana Red_ (syn. of Indiana), 468

  Infertility, causes of, in plums, 110-112

  Inkpa, 468

  _Inselpflaume Grüne_ (syn. of Isle-Verte), 470

  Iola, 468

  Iona, 468

  Iowa, 468

  Iowa Beauty, 468

  Irby, 468

  Irby September (syn. of Irby), 468

  Ireland, 469

  Ireland Golden, 469

  Ireland’s Golden Gage (syn. of Ireland Golden), 469

  Ireland’s Seedling (syn. of Ireland), 469

  Irene, 469

  Iris, 469

  _Irish Horse Plum_ (syn. of Horse), 464

  Ironclad, 469

  Iroquois, 469

  _Irving’s Bolmar_ or _Bolmer_ (syns. of Washington), 368

  Isaac, 469

  _Isabel_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  Isabella, 469

  _Isle Vert_; Isle Verte (syns. of Isle-Verte), 470

  Isle-Verte, 469

  _Isleworth Green Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Italian Damask, 470

  _Italian Damask_ (syn. of Morocco, 288; of Orleans, 302)

  _Italian Guetsche_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  _Italianische blanc Zwetsche_, _blaue Zwetsche_, _Zwetsche_; _Italian
        Prune_ or _Quetsche_; _Italienische Zwetsche_ (syns. of Italian
        Prune), 253

  Italienische Damascene (Diel’s), 470

  Italienische Damascene (Liegel’s), 470

  _Italienische Blaue Zwetsche_ or _Pflaumen Zwetsche_ (syns. of
        Italian Prune), 253

  Italian Prune, 252

  _Italienische Grüne Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Verte D’Italie), 525

  Itasca (syn. of Aitkin), 140

  Itasca, 470

  Itaska (syn. of Itasca), 470

  Ithaca, 470

  Ivason, 470

  Ives, 470

  Ives, J. M., var. orig. by, 470

  Ives Damson (syn. of Ives), 470

  _Ive’s Seedling_ (syn. of Ives), 470

  _Ive’s Washington_ (syn. of Ives), 470

  Ives’ Washington Seedling (syn. of Ives), 470


  Jacinthe (syn. of Jacinthe), 471

  Jacinthe, 471

  _Jackson?_ (syn. of Rigny, 532; of Washington, 368)

  Jacob, 471

  _Jacobi Zwetsche_ (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  _Jahns Gelbe Jerusalems-Pflaume_ (syn. of Yellow Jerusalem), 569

  _Jahn’s Jerusalems Pflaume_ (syn. of Yellow Jerusalem), 569

  _Jakobs Pflaume_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  James Vick (syn. of Vick), 559

  Jamin, var. orig. by, 187

  Japan Blood Plum (syn. of Satsuma), 337

  Japanese Plum Seedling, 471

  Japanese Seedling X (syn. of Japex), 255

  _Japan Hybrid No. 3_ (syn. of Ames), 144

  Japan No. 1, 471

  Japan No. 3, 471

  Japan Hybrid No. 2 (a), 471

  Japan Hybrid No. 2 (b), 471

  Japex, 255

  Jap No. 4, 471

  Jaspisartige Pflaume, 471

  _Jaune de Bleeker_ (syn. of Bleeker), 163

  _Jaune de Catalogne_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Jaune de Jerusalem_ (syn. of Gelbe Jerusalempflaume), 450

  _Jaune de Monsieur_ (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  _Jaune de Reizenstein_ (syn. of Reizenstein Yellow Prune), 531

  Jaune d’Este, 471

  _Jaune Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Jaune précoce_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Jaune Tardive, 471

  Jaune Tres Hâtive Baboud, 471

  _Jckworth Imperatrice_ (syn. of Ickworth), 247

  Jean d’Este (syn. of Jaune d’Este), 471

  _Jean Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Jean Morceau, 472

  _Jean Morceau_ (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  _Jean White_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Jefferson, 255

  _Jemmy Moore_ (syn. of Denbigh), 430

  Jenkins, J. H. G., var. orig. by, 448

  _Jenkin’s Imperial_ (syn. of Nectarine, 291; of Peach, 309)

  _Jenkinson’s Imperial_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  Jennie Lucas, 472

  Jerusalem, 472

  _Jerusalem_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Jerusalem Jaune_ (syn. of Yellow Jerusalem), 569

  Jessie, 472

  Jewell, 472

  _J_ (syn. of Hale), 237

  _J. B. Rue_ (syn. of Rue), 536

  J. H. Rue, 472

  Jodoigne, 472

  Jodoigne Green Gage (syn. of Jodoigne), 472

  Joe Hooker, 473

  Johannispflaume (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  John A, 473

  Johnny Roe, 473

  _John’s Gelbe Jerusalems-Pflaume_ (syn. of Yellow Jerusalem), 569

  Johnson, Franklin, var. orig. by, 548

  Johnson, J. E., var. orig. by, 362

  Jones, 473

  Jones, Herbert A., var. orig. by, 452

  Jones, Mrs. Owen, var. orig. by, 473

  Jones Late, 473

  Jordan, F., var. orig. by, 473

  Jordan Seedling, 473

  Josselyn, John, quoted, 20

  J. Parks, 473

  Judson, 473

  Juicy, 257

  Julia, 473

  Julian, 473

  Julien Gros à Feuilles Panachees, 473

  Juli Reine-Claude; _Julius Reine-Claude_ (syns. of July Green Gage),
        474

  July Fourth, 473

  July Green Gage, 473

  _July Green Gage_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  Jumelles, 474

  Jumelles de Liegel, 474

  _Jumelles de Liegel_ (syn. of Jumelles de Liegel), 474


  Kaga, 474

  _Kaiser Von Japan_ (syn. of Emperor of Japan), 443

  Kaiser Wilhelm, 474

  Kalm, Peter, quoted, 20

  Kampeska, 474

  Kanawha, 474

  _Karl Koch’s Königs Pflaume_ (syn. of Koch Königspflaume), 477

  Kazan, 474

  _Keindl’s Violette Königspflaume_ (syn. of Royale Violette de
        Keindl), 535

  Keindt, 475

  Keindt’s Frühdamascene (syn. of Keindt), 475

  Keindt’s Violette Königspflaume (syn. of Royale Violette de Keindl),
        535

  Keith, 475

  _Keiser_ (syn. of Hulings), 245

  Kelley, 475

  Kelbalan, 475

  Kelmyro, 475

  Kelroba, 475

  Kelsaw, 475

  Kelsey, 258

  Kelsey No. 1 (syn. of Kelmyro), 475

  Kelsey No. 2 (syn. of Kelroba), 475

  Kelsey No. 3 (syn. of Kelbalan), 475

  Kelsey Prune, 475

  Kelsey’s Japan (syn. of Kelsey), 258

  Kelso, 475

  Kenellan, 475

  Kennedy Red, 475

  _Kensington Prune_ (syn. of Holland), 462

  Kent, 475

  _Kentish Bush_ (syn. of Kent), 476

  Kentish Diamond (syn. of Diamond), 191

  Kenyon, 476

  Kerr, 259

  Kerr, J. W., life of, 349-350;
    quoted, 98, 115, 118, 171, 422, 495, 508;
    var. orig. by, 349, 418, 446, 492, 501, 559, 562

  Kester Green Gage, 476

  Kester’s Green Gage (syn. of Kester Green Gage), 476

  Kester’s Yellow Gage (syn. of Kester Yellow Gage), 476

  Kester Yellow Gage, 476

  Keyser, var. orig. by, 245

  _Keyser’s Plum_ (syn. of Hulings), 245

  _Kibitzenei_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  Kicab, 476

  Kickapoo, 476

  Kieth (syn. of Keith), 475

  Kilpatrick, E. W., var. orig. by, 485

  King, 476

  King Damson, 259

  King of Damsons (syn. of King Damson), 259

  _King of Plums_ (syn. of Golden Drop, 229; of Reine Claude, 327)

  King of Plums (syn. of King), 476

  Kings Plum (syn. of Royal), 534

  Kings Plum of Tours (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  Kingston (syn. of Diamond), 191

  Kingston, 476

  _Kirchhof’s Pflaume_ (syn. of Capitaine Kirchhof), 414

  Kirke, 260

  _Kirke_ (syn. of Kirke), 260

  _Kirke’s_; _Kirke’s Pflaume_; _Kirke’s Plum_; _Kirk’s Plum_ (syns. of
        Kirke), 260

  _Kirke’s Stoneless_ (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  _Kirschpflaume_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Kladrauer Pflaume_ (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  _Klein Weisse Damassener Pflaume_ (syn. of Small White Damson), 544

  Kleine Blaue Frühzwetsche, 476

  _Kleine Blaue Julians Pflaume_ (syn. of Damson, 186; of Saint Julien,
        335)

  _Kleine Brisette_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _Kleine Dauphine_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  Kleine Gelbe Eierpflaume, 476

  _Kleine gelbe Früh Pflaume_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Kleine Grüne Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  Kleine Kirschpflaume, 476

  _Kleine Kirschpflaume_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Kleine Kirsch Pflaume_ (syn. of Rote Mirabelle), 533

  _Kleine Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Kleine Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  Kleine Rosspauke, 476

  _Kleine Weisse Damascene_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude, 347; of Small
        White Damson, 544)

  _Kleine Zucker Zwetsche_ (syn. of Petite Quetsche Sucrée), 515

  _Kleinste Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  Klondike, 477

  Klondyke (syn. of Klondike), 477

  _Knevett’s Late Orleans_ (syn. of Nelson), 503

  Kniedsen’s Peach (syn. of Knudson), 477

  Knight, var. orig. by, 248, 436, 479

  _Knight’s Green Drying_, _Large Drying_ or _Large Green Drying_
        (syns. of Large Green Drying), 479

  _Knight’s No. 6_ (syn. of Ickworth), 247

  Knudson, 477

  Knudson, H., var. orig. by, 182, 422, 460, 462, 463, 477, 496

  Knudson’s Peach (syn. of Knudson), 477

  Koa, 477

  Koa’s Imperial (syn. of Koa), 477

  Kober, 477

  Koch, quoted, 17, 18

  _Koch’s Gelbe Spät Damascene_ (syn. of Koch Späte Damascene), 477

  Koch Königspflaume, 477

  Koch Späte Damascene, 477

  _Koch’s Späte Aprikosen_; _Koch’s Späte Damascene_ (syns. of Koch
        Späte Damascene), 477

  Koepher, 477

  _Koetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Kohlenkamp, 477

  Kohlenkamp, W., var. orig. by, 477

  Kohlen Kamp (syn. of Kohlenkamp), 477

  _Königin Claudia_ or _Klaudia_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Königin der Mirabellen_ (syn. of Reine des Mirabelles), 530

  Königin Mutter (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  _Königin Victoria_ (syn. of Victoria), 363

  _Königin von Tours_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  _Königliche Grosse Pflaume_; _Königliche Pflaume von Tours_; _Königs
        Pflaume_; _Königspflaume von Tours_ (syns. of Royal Tours), 332

  _Königspflaume_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  Königspflaume (syn. of Royal), 534

  _Königs Pflaume aus Paris_; _Königspflaume von Paris_ (syns. of
        Perdrigon Tardif), 515

  Königspflaume Frühe (syn. of Royale Hâtive de Liegel), 535

  _Königs Pflaume von Maugerou_ (syn. of Maugeron), 492

  Königspflaume von Trapp’s (syn. of Trapps Königspflaume), 555

  _König Zwetsche_ (syn. of Trauttenberg), 555

  Kook, var. orig. by, 432

  _Kook’s Gelbe Diaprée_; _Kooks Neue Diapre_ (syn. of Diaprée Nouvelle
        De Kook), 432

  Kopp, 477

  Korai, 478

  _K. P. 193_ (syn. of Purple-leaved Hybrid), 521

  _Krasnaya osimaya_ (syn. of Red Winter), 529

  _Krasnaya Skorospielkaya_ (syn. of Early Red), 440

  _Kreger_ (syn. of Danish Damson), 428

  _Kreke_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Kreuters Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche de Kreuter), 523

  Krieche (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Krieke_ (syn. of Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling), 451

  Kroh, P. H., var. orig. by, 316

  _Kroh_ (syn. of Poole Pride), 315

  Kroos-Pruim, 478

  _Krueger_ (syn. of Danish Damson), 428

  _Kruger’s Seedling_ (syn. of Cruger Scarlet), 424

  _Kuchen Pflaume_ (syn. of Frankfort Peach), 447

  Kume, 478


  _La Bonne Deux Fois l’An_ (syn. of Venetianische Zweimal Tragende),
        558

  _La Bricette_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _La Courbon_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _La Delicieuse_ (syn. of Cooper, 423; of Smith Orleans, 348)

  _La Duc_ (syn. of Le Duc), 483

  _La Grosse Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _La Madeleine_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  _La Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  La Prairie, 479

  La Prune Suisse (syn, of Suisse), 549

  _La Roche-Corbon_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  La Royal (syn. of Royal), 534

  _La Royale_ (syn. of Royal), 534

  _La Venitienne_ (syn. of Venetianische Zweimal Tragende), 558

  La Victorine (syn. of Victoria), 363

  Labert (syn. of Lambert), 478

  _Labert’s Red_ (syn. of Lambert), 478

  Lachine, 478

  Ladies’ Plum (syn. of Damas Violet), 427

  Lady, 478

  _Lady Lucy_ (syn. of Cooper), 423

  Lady Plum (syn. of Lady), 478

  Lafay, M., var. orig. by, 360

  Lafayette, 261

  Laire, 262

  Lakeside No. 1 & No. 2, 478

  Lallinger Königspflaume, 478

  Lambert, 478

  _Lambert’s Red_ (syn. of Lambert), 478

  Lammas, 478

  Lancaster, 478

  Lang, 478

  Langdon, 478

  Langdon, Reuben, var. orig. by, 478

  _Langdon_ (syn. of Langsdon), 479

  _Langdon’s Seedling_ (syn. of Langdon), 478

  _Langes Aprikosenpflaume_ (syn. of Abricotée de Lange), 391

  Lange Violette Damascene, 479

  _Lange Violette Dattel Pflaume_; _Lange Violette Dattel Zwetsche_
        (syns. of Red Date), 322

  _Lange Violette Dattel Zwetsche_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Langley, quoted, 302

  Langsdon, 479

  _Langliche Blaue Damascene?_ (syn. of Lange Violette Damascene), 479

  Lannix, 479

  _Large Black Imperial?_ (syn. of Belle de Louvain, 400; of Bradshaw,
        166)

  _Large Early Black_ (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  _Large early black_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  _Large Early Damson_ (syn. of Horse), 464

  Large English, 262

  Large English Damson, 479

  Large German Prune (syn. of York State Prune), 571

  _Large German Prune_ (syn. of German Prune, 219; of Italian Prune,
        253)

  Large Golden Prolific, 479

  _Large green claudia_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Large Green Drying, 479

  _Large Green Drying_ (syn. of Large Green Drying), 479

  _Large Holland_ (syn. of Holland), 462

  _Large Late Red Damask_ (syn. of Late Red Damask), 481

  _Large Long Blue_ (syn. of Manning), 489

  _Large Orlean_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum, 326; of Smith Orleans, 348)

  _Large Peach_ (syn. of Peach), 309

  Large Peach Plum (syn. of Peach), 309

  _Large Purple_ (syn. of Smith Orleans), 348

  Large Queen, 479

  _Large Queen Claude_; Large Queen Claudia (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Large Red Orleans_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Large Red Sweet_ (syn. of Plunk), 516

  Large Saint Julien (syn. of Saint Julien), 335

  _Largest Damask of Tours_ (syn. of Gros Damas de Tours), 456

  Large Sugar Prune, 480

  Large Sweet Damson (syn. of Horse), 464

  _Large White Damask_ (syn. of Large White Damson), 480

  Large White Damson, 480

  _Large Yellow Egg_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Late Black Damson, 480

  _Late Black Orleans_ (syn. of Late Orleans), 265

  Late Blood, 480

  Late Bolmer, 480

  Late Chalons, 480

  _Late Cluster_ (syn. of White Damson), 374

  Late Conical, 480

  Late Damask? (syn. of Late Black Damson), 480

  _Late Damson_ (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  _Late Diamond_ (syn. of Arch Duke), 148

  _Late Gage_; _Late Green Gage_ (syns. of Late Reine Claude), 481

  Late Goose, 481

  _Late Green Gage_ (syn. of Late Reine Claude), 481

  _Late Klondike_ (syn. of Golden), 224

  _Late Klondike_ (syn. of Shiro), 342

  Late Mirabelle, 263

  _Late Monsieur_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  Late Muscatel (syn. of Late Muscatelle), 264

  Late Muscatelle, 264

  Late Orange, 481

  _Late Orleans_ (syn. of Late Orleans), 265

  Late Orleans, 265

  Late Prolific, 481

  Late Purple Damson (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  Late Red Damask, 481

  _Late Red Damson_ (syn. of Late Red Damask), 481

  _Late Red Imperial_ (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  Late Reine Claude, 481

  Late Rivers, 481

  Late Rollingstone, 482

  Late Transparent, 482

  Late Transparent Gage (syn. of Late Transparent), 482

  _Late Violet_ (syn. of Imperatrice, 249; of Late Transparent, 482)

  Late White Damson (syn. of White Damson), 374

  Late White Pear (syn. of White Pear), 564

  _Late Yellow Damson_ (syn. of White Damson), 374

  Later Perdrigon (syn. of Perdrigon Tardif), 515

  Latz German Prune—See German Prune, 220

  Laubinger Sugar Prune, 482

  _Laubinger’s Catharinen Pflaume_ (syn. of Laubinger Sugar Prune), 482

  Laubinger’s Zuckerzwetsche (syn. of Laubinger Sugar Prune), 482

  Lauche, quoted, 221, 254

  Laura, 482

  Lawrence, 266

  Lawrence, L. V., var. orig. by, 182, 266, 465

  Lawrence; _Lawrence’s Early_; _Lawrence’s Früh Rote Pflaume_ (syns.
        of Lawrence Early), 482

  Lawrence Early, 482

  _Lawrence Early_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  _Lawrence_ or _Lawrence’s Favorite_; Lawrence Gage; _Lawrence’s
        Gage_; _Lawrences Reine Claude_ (syns. of Lawrence), 266

  Lawson, 482

  Lawson, John, quoted, 84, 93

  _Lawson’s Golden_ (syn. of Lawson), 482

  Lawson’s Golden Gage (syn. of Lawson), 482

  _Le Czar_ (syn. of Czar), 184

  Le Duc, 483

  _Le Duc Vermillion_ (syn. of Vermilion), 558

  Le Prunier Tzaneron (syn. of Tzaueron), 557

  _L’Etendard De L’Angleterre_ (syn. of Standard), 548

  Legal Tender, 483

  Leib Sour, 483

  Leipsic (syn. of Merunka), 494

  _Leipzic_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Leipzig_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Leipzig Early Quetsche (syn. of Merunka), 494

  _Leipziger Zwetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Leonard, 483

  Leopard, 483

  Lepine, 483

  Lepine, var. orig. by, 483

  _Lepine_ (syn. of Norbert), 505

  Leptune, 483

  _Lerchenei_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  Leroy, André, var. orig. by, 157

  Letta, 483

  Lewelling, Seth, var. orig. by, 453

  Lewis, 483

  Lewiston Egg, 484

  Lewiston’s Egg (syn. of Lewiston Egg), 484

  Lex Plum, 484

  _Lieflander Gelbe Pflaume_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Lieflandische Grüne Zwetsche_ (syn. of Jaspisartige Pflaume), 471

  _Liegal’s August Zwetsche_ (syn. of August Zwetsche), 397

  Liegel Rote Damascene, 484

  Liegel Apricot, 484

  Liegel, Dr., var. orig. by, 391, 399, 402, 403, 422, 477, 484, 493,
        523, 526, 535, 555

  Liegel Gage, 484

  _Liegel’s Blaue Reine Claude_ (syn. of Blaue Reine Claude), 405

  _Liegels Frühzwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Précoce Liegel), 525

  _Liegel’s Marokko_ (syn. of Kaiser Wilhelm), 474

  Liegel’s Spanische Damascene (syn. of Spanish Damask), 546

  _Liegel’s Zwillingspflaume_ (syn. of Jumelles de Liegel), 474

  Liegel Unvergleichliche, 484

  Lillian Augusta, 484

  Lillie, 484

  Lincoln, 266

  Lindley, quoted, 229

  Lindow’sche Frühe Werder’sche Pflaume, 484

  Lindsay, 484

  Lindsay’s Seedling (syn. of Lindsay), 484

  Little, 485

  Little Black Damask (syn. of Black Damask), 404

  _Little Blue Gage_ (syn. of Early Blue), 438

  _Little Date_ (syn. of Datilles), 428

  _Little Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Little Queen Claude_ or _Claudia_; _Little Reine Claude_ (syns. of
        Small Reine Claude), 347

  Little Seedling (syn. of Little), 485

  _Livingston Manor_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Livlandscher bierpflaume_ (syn. of Livland), 485

  Livland, 485

  Lizzie, 485

  Lockey, 485

  Lombard, 268

  Lombard group, 33, 34

  _Lombard Plum_ (syn. of Lombard), 268

  _Lombard_ (syn. of Lombard), 268

  _Lombard_ (syn. of Red Gage), 527

  _London Plum_ or _Plumb_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Lone Star, 485

  Long Blue, 485

  _Long Damson_ (syn. of Shropshire), 344

  Long Fruit, 270

  _Long Fruit_ (syn. of Red June), 324

  Long Fruited (syn. of Long Fruit), 270

  Long Leaf Wonderful, 485

  Long Red, 485

  Long Scarlet, 485

  Long Violet Damascene, 486

  _Long Violet Damask_ (syn. of Damas Violet), 427

  Longworth, 486

  Longworth, Nicholas, var. orig. by, 486

  Lord, Orville Morell, life of, 331;
    var. orig. by, 331, 482

  Lot d’Ente, 486

  _Lot d’Ente_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  Lotta (syn. of Lottie), 486

  Lottie, 486

  Louis, Simon, var. orig. by, 445

  Louisa, 486

  Louis Brun (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Louise-Brune, 486

  _Louise Brune_ (syn. of Louise-Brune), 486

  Louisen’s Braune Damascene (syn. of Louise-Brune), 486

  Louisiana, 486

  _Louis Philipp_ or _Philippe_ (syns. of Washington), 368

  _Louis Philippe_ (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  Lovett, 486

  Lovett Late, 487

  _Lovett’s Late Long Red_ (syn. of Lovett Late), 487

  Lowry, 487

  Lowry’s Gage (syn. of Lowry), 487

  Lucas Frühzwetsche (syn. of Précoce de Lucas), 518

  Lucas Königspflaume, 487

  Luccombe’s Nonesuch (syn. of Lucombe), 271

  Lucombe, 271

  Lucombe, var. orig. by, 271

  Lucombe’s Nonesuch (syn. of Lucombe), 271

  _Lucombe’s Nonsuch_ (syn. of Lucombe), 271

  _Lucombe’s Unvergleichliche_ (syn. of Lucombe), 271

  Luedloff, 487

  Luedloff, Charles, var. orig. by, 406, 469, 487, 503, 547

  Luedloff Green, 487

  Luedloff Red, 487

  Luedloff’s Green (syn. of Luedloff Green), 487

  Luedloff’s Red (syn. of Luedloff Red), 487

  Luedloff’s Seedling (syn. of Luedloff), 487

  Luizet, M., var. orig. by, 441

  Lunn, 487

  Luscombe, 487

  Luscombe’s Seedling (syn. of Luscombe), 487

  Lutts, 487

  Lyon, 488

  Lyon Apricot, 488


  Macedonia, 488

  Mackland, 488

  _MacLanglin_ (syn. of McLaughlin), 276

  MacLaughlin (syn. of McLaughlin), 276

  Macomber, 488

  Macomber, J. T., var. orig. by, 453

  Macomber, L. M., var. orig. by, 180, 510, 520

  Macomber No. 1 and No. 2, 488

  Madame Henri Deschars, 488

  Madame Nicolle, 488

  Madam Leeds, 488

  Madeleine, 488

  _Madeleine_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Madison_ (syn. of Denniston Superb), 431

  Madison, 488

  _Magnum Bonum_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Mailändische Kaiserpflaume_ (syn. of Impériale de Milan), 467

  Mainzer Frühzwetsche, 489

  _Maître Claude_ (syn. of White Perdrigon), 375

  Majestic Damson, 489

  Mallard, 489

  _Mamelon_ (syn. of Mamelonnée), 489

  _Mamelonnée_ (syn. of St. Etienne), 537

  Mamelonnée, 489

  _Mamelon Sageret_ (syn. of Mamelonnée), 489

  _Mammola_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Mammoth July_ (syn. of Culberson), 425

  _Mangeron_ (syn. of Maugeron), 492

  Manitoba, 489

  Manitoba No. 1, 489

  Manitoba Seedlings, 489

  Mankato, 489

  Manning, 489

  _Manning’s Long Blue_; _Manning’s Long Blue Prune_; _Manning’s Prune_
        (syns. of Manning), 489

  _Mann’s Brandy Gage_; _Mann’s Imperial_ (syns. of Brandy Gage), 408

  Maquoketa, 271

  _Maraichère_ (syn. of Quetsche Maraichère), 524

  Marais des Cygne, 490

  Marange, 490

  Marble, 490

  Marbled-Plum, 490

  _Marble Plum_ (syn. of Marbled-Plum), 490

  Marcellus, 490

  Marcus, 490

  Mardy, 490

  Margate, 490

  _Marian_ (syn. of Early Royal), 201

  Marianna, 273

  Marietta, 490

  Marigan, 491

  Marion, 491

  Marjorie, 491

  Marketman, 491

  Market Plum (syn. of Golden Cherry), 228

  Markle, E., var. orig. by, 177

  Marmorierte Eierpflaume, 491

  _Marokko Pflaume_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  Marshall, quoted, 58, 83, 84

  Marster, 491

  Marster’s (syn. of Marster), 491

  Marten, 491

  _Marten’s Seedling_ (syn. of Marten), 491

  Maru, 275

  Marunka (syn. of Merunka), 494

  Mary, 491

  Maryland, 491

  Mas, 492

  Mas, M., quoted, 497;
    var. orig. by, 443

  Mason, 492

  Mason, var. orig. by, 492

  Massot (syn. of Oullins), 303

  _Matchless_ (syn. of Red Diaper, 323;
    of Violet Diaper, 365)

  Matchless, 492

  Mathews, 492

  Mathews, B. A., var. orig. by, 492

  Matthews (syn. of Mathews), 492

  Mauchete, 492

  Maude Lacy, 492

  Maugeron, 492

  _Maugeron_; _Maugeron Damask_ (syn. of Maugeron), 492

  _Maugiron_ (syn. of Maugeron), 492

  Mayerboeck Zwetsche, 492

  _Mayerboeck’s Rote Zwetsche_ (syn. of Mayerboeck Zwetsche), 492

  Mayer Hellrote, 493

  Mayer Königspflaume, 493

  _Mayers Braunrothe Königspflaume_ (syn. of Mayers Rothe Damascene),
        493

  _Mayer’s Hellrothe Damascene_ (syn. of Mayer Hellrote), 493

  Mayers Rothe Damascene, 493

  _Mayers Rothe Damascene_ (syn. of Mayers Rothe Damascene), 493

  Maynard, 275

  McCance, M. E., var. orig. by, 378

  McCartney, 493

  _McCauley’s Seedling_ (syn. of Cambell), 414

  McGillivray, 493

  McLaughlin, 276

  McLaughlin, James, var. orig. by, 277, 514

  McLaughlin’s Gage Plum (syn. of McLaughlin), 276

  McMahon, Bernard, quoted, 30, 38

  McPherson, 493

  McRea, 493

  Mead, H. O., var. orig. by, 493

  Meads, 493

  Meads Seedling Plum (syn. of Meads), 493

  Mediterranean, 493

  Meigs, 493

  Melon, 493

  Melnicker Zwetsche, 493

  Meneray, 494

  Mereton, 494

  Mereton’s Egg (syn. of Mereton), 494

  Meroldt, 494

  Meroldt, Dr., var. orig. by, 494

  _Meroldt’s Gelbe Reine-Claude_; _Meroldt’s Golden Gage_; Meroldt’s
        Reineclaude (syn. of Meroldt), 494

  Merryweather, 494

  Merryweather, H., var. orig. by, 494

  Merton’s Egg (syn. of Mereton), 494

  Merunka, 494

  Merville d’Automne, 494

  Meyer, 494

  Miama, 494

  Miami (syn. of Miama), 494

  _Michaelis Pflaume_ (syn. of September Damask), 542

  Middleburg, 278

  Middleburgh (syn. of Middleburg), 278

  Mignonne, 495

  Mikado (syn. of Georgeson), 218

  Miles, 495

  _Miller_ (syn. of Improved French Prune), 467

  Miller, 495

  Miller, Colonel Charles, var. orig. by, 279

  Miller, David J., var. orig. by, 445, 495

  Miller No. 1, 495

  Miller No. 5, 495

  _Miller’s Early_ (syn. of Silva Köning Claudie), 543

  Miller Superb, 279

  Millett, 495

  Millett Early Red, 495

  Millett’s Early Red (syn. of Millett Early Red), 495

  Millett, T. T., 495

  Millett Very Early Red, 495

  Millett’s Very Early Red (syn. of Millett Very Early Red), 495

  _Millett’s Wild Plum_ (syn. of Millett), 495

  Mills, 496

  Mills Seedling, 496

  Milton, 280

  Milton Gage, 496

  _Mimms_; _Mimms Pflaume_; _Mimms Plum_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  Minco, 496

  Miner, 281

  _Minette_ (syn. of Guthrie Late), 236

  Minion, 496

  Minner (syn. of Miner), 281

  Minnesota, 496

  Minnesota Seedling, 496

  _Minnesota_ (syn. of Rollingstone), 330

  Minnetonka, 496

  Minnie, 496

  _Minsterworth_ (syn. of Gloucestershire Violet), 452

  _Mirababelle_; Mirabel; _Mirabelle_; _Mirabelle abricotée_,
        _Blanche_, _de Metz_, _de Vienne_, _Jaune_, _Perle_, _Perlée_,
        _Petite_, _précoce_, _Simple_, _Verte_ (syns. of Mirabelle), 284

  Mirabelle, 283

  _Mirabelle_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Mirabelle Abricotée_ (syn. of Aprikosenartige Mirabelle), 396

  _Mirabelle de Berthold_ (syn. of Early Mirabelle), 439

  Mirabelle de Bohn, 496

  _Mirabelle de Bohn_ (syn. of Mirabelle de Bohn), 496

  _Mirabelle de Doerell_ (syn. of Dorell Aprikosenpflaume), 434

  Mirabelle de Flotow, 497

  _Mirabelle de Metz_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Mirabelle de Nancy_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Mirabelle de Rangheri (syn. of Rangheri), 526

  Mirabelle de Ronvaux, 497

  _Mirabelle d’Octobre_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _Mirabelle Double_, _Double de Metz_, _Drap d’Or_, _Grosse_, _Grosse
        de Nancy_, _grosse double de Metz_, _la grosse_, _Perlée_;
        Mirabellen (syns. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Mirabelle Double de Herrenhausen, 497

  Mirabelle Gloire de Louveciennes (syn. of Gloire de Louveciennes), 452

  Mirabelle group, discussion of, 40, 41

  _Mirabelle Hâtive de Rangheri_ (syn. of Rangheri), 526

  _Mirabelle La Plus Hâtive de Flotow_ (syn. of Mirabelle de Flotow),
        497

  _Mirabelle Précoce_ (syn. of Early Mirabelle), 439

  Mirabelle Précoce de Flaford, 497

  _Mirabelle Rangheri_; Mirabelle Rangheris (syns. of Rangheri), 526

  _Mirabelle Rayee_ (syn. of Mirabelle de Bohn), 496

  _Mirabelle Rouge_ (syn. of Myrobalan, 290; of Rote Mirabelle, 533)

  _Mirabelle Tardive_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle, 263; of Saint Catherine,
        334)

  _Mirabelle Tardive Mme. H. Deschars_ (syn. of Madame Henri Deschars),
        488

  _Mirabelle Vert Double_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Mirabelle Verte, 497

  _Mirabelle von Metz_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  Mirabilon; Mirabolan; _Mirabolane_; _Mirabolanenpflaume_; _Mirobalan_
        (syns. of Myrobalan), 290

  Miracle, 285

  _Miriam_ (syn. of Early Royal), 201

  _Mirian_ (syn. of Early Royal), 201

  _Miser_; _Miser Plum_ (syns. of Myrobalan), 290

  Mission Prune, 497

  Mississippi, 497

  _Mississippi Red_ (syn. of Mississippi), 497

  Missouri, 497

  Missouri Apricot (syn. of Golden Beauty), 226

  Missouri Green Gage, 498

  Mistake, 498

  Mitchelson, 498

  _Mitchelson_; Mitchelson’s (syns. of Mitchelson), 498

  Mitchelson, var. orig. by, 498

  _Miviam_; _Mivian_ (syns. of Early Royal), 201

  Mivian, 498

  _Mixed Arab_ (syn. of Early Red), 440

  _Mixed Arab_ (syn. of Black Arabka), 404

  M. J. De Wolf, 498

  M’Laughlin (syn. of McLaughlin), 276

  _Mogol Plum_; _Mogule Pflaume_; _Mogol_; _Mogul Plum_; _Mogul’s
        Pflaume_; _Mogule_; Mogule Plumb (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Mogul (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Mogul Rouge_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  Moldavka (syn. of Blue Moldavka), 405

  Moldavka (syn. of Voronesh), 365

  Mollie, 498

  Molly (syn. of Mollie), 498

  Monarch, 286

  Monarque (syn. of Monarch), 286

  Monolith, 498

  Monon, 498

  Monona, 498

  Monroe, 287

  _Monroe Egg_; _Monroe Gage_ (syns. of Monroe), 287

  _Monsieur_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Monsieur à Fruit Vert, 498

  _Monsieur_; _Monsieur Ordinaire_ (syns. of Orleans), 302

  _Monsieur_; _Monsieur Hâtif_; _Monsieur Hâtif de Montmorency_;
        _Monsieur Hâtive_ (syns. of Early Orleans), 198

  _Monsieur_; _Monsieur’s Plum_ (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Monsieur à Fruits Jaune_; _Monsieur à Fruits Jaunes_ (syns. of
        Yellow Imperatrice), 569

  _Monsieur de Smith_ (syn. of Smith Orleans), 348

  Monsieur Hâtif de Foote (syn. of Foote), 446

  Monsieur Jaune (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  Monsieur Jaune (syn. of Yellow Imperatrice), 569

  Monsieur Noir Tardif (syn. of Late Orleans), 265

  _Monsieur Tardif_ (syn. of Suisse), 549

  Monsieur tardif (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Monsieur tardif de Knevett_ (syn. of Nelson), 503

  _Monsieur Tardive_ (syn. of Suisse), 549

  _Monstreuse de Bavay_; _Monstrueuse de Bavay_ (syns. of Bavay), 155

  _Monstrueuse d’Oullins_ (syn. of Oullins), 303

  Mont Barbat d’Ente, 499

  _Montfort Pflaume_ (syn. of De Montfort), 430

  _Montgomery_ (syn. of Hand), 239

  Montgomery, 499

  _Montgomery Prune_ (syn. of Lombard, 268; of Montgomery, 499)

  Montmorency, 499

  _Montreuil_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  _Montreal No. 60_ (syn. of Lunn), 487

  Montreal, 499

  Moon, 499

  Moody, 499

  _Mooney_ (syn. of Bradshaw), 166

  Moore, A. T., var. orig. by, 151

  Moore Early, 499

  Moore’s Early (syn. of Moore Early), 499

  Mooreman (syn. of Moreman), 288

  _Moore’s Arctic_; Moore Arctic (syns. of Arctic), 150

  Morel, M. F., var. orig. by, 517

  Moreman, 288, 499

  Moreman Cherry (syn. of Moreman), 499

  Moreman Prune (syn. of Benson), 401

  _Moreman’s Cherry_ (syn. of Aurora), 397

  _Morillen Pflaume_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  Morines, 499

  Morin Hâtif, 499

  Morocco, 288

  _Morocco_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Morocco_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  _Morocco Pflaume_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  _Moroccopflaume_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  Morocco Plumb (syn. of Morocco), 288

  Morton, Thomas, quoted, 93

  _Moschatelle_ (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  Mottled Prune, 289

  _Mouchetée_ (syn. of Mauchete), 492

  Mountain, 499

  Mountain Plum, 500

  Mount Royal, 500

  Moyen, 500

  _Moyen de Bourgogne_ (syn. of Moyen de Bourgoyne), 500

  Moyen de Bourgoyne, 500

  Moyer, 500

  _Moyeu de Bourgogne_ (syn. of Early Perdrigon), 439

  Moyret, 500

  Moyret’s Gage; Moyret’s Reine Claude (syns. of Moyret), 500

  Mrs. Cleveland (syn. of Cleveland), 419

  Mrs. Bleeker’s Large Red (syn. of Bleeker Large Red), 405

  _Mrs. Clifford_ (syn. of Clifford), 419

  Mudson, 500

  Mulberry, 500

  Muldraugh, 500

  Muldraugh’s-hill Plum (syn. of Muldraugh), 500

  Mule, 500

  Muncey (syn. of Muncy), 501

  _Münchenpflaume_ (syn. of September Damask), 542

  Muncy, 501

  Munson, 501

  Munson, Thomas Volney, plum investigations of, 88, 89;
    var. orig. by, 402, 412, 496

  _Munson_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  Murdy, 501

  _Murray’s Reine Claude_ or _Claudia_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  Muscadine (syn. of Myrobalan, 290; of Queen Mother, 522)

  _Musk Damask_ (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  Musk Damson, 501

  Musk’d Damask; _Muskierte Damascene_ (syns. of Musk Damson), 501

  _Muskirte Gelbe Damascene_ (syn. of Damas Jaune Musque), 427

  Muscat Free, 501

  Musk Perdrigon, 502

  Muscle, 501

  _Mussel_ (syn. of Scioto), 541

  _Mussel_; _Mussell_; Mussell Plum (syns. of Muscle), 501

  Mussey, 502

  _Musque de Malta_ (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  _Musquée de Besztercze_ (syn. of Hungarian Musk Prune), 465

  _Myrobalan_; _Myrobalane_; _Myrobolan_; Myrobalans (syns. of
        Myrobalan), 290

  Myrobalan, 290

  _Myrobalan Jaune_ (syn. of Gelbe Kirschpflaume), 450


  Nagate-Maru, 502

  _Nagate no Botankyo_ (syn. of Red June), 324

  Nagats-Maru (syn. of Nagate-Maru), 502

  Nagatus maru (syn. of Nagate-Maru), 502

  Naples, 502

  Native Red, 502

  N. C. Seedling (syn. of North Carolina), 507

  Nebraska, 502

  Nebraska Seedling, 502

  Nebraska Wonder, 502

  Nectarine, 291

  _Nectarine_ (syn. of Goliath, 231; of Nectarine, 291; of Peach, 309)

  Nectarine Plum (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  _Nectarine Rouge_ (syn. of Peach), 309

  Neils, 502

  Nellie, 502

  Nellie Blanche, 503

  Nelly (syn. of Nellie), 502

  Nelson, 503

  _Nelson’s Victory_ (syn. of Nelson), 503

  _Neue Weisse Kaiserin_ (syn. of White Queen), 564

  _New Orleans_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 199

  Never Fail, 503

  New American, 503

  _New Apricot of Braunau_ (syn. of Liegel Apricot), 484

  Newark, 291

  _New Early Orleans_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 198

  New Goderich, 503

  _New Golden Drop_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 229

  New Green Gage, 503

  New Large Bullace, 503

  _New Large Bullace_ (syn. of New Large Bullace), 503

  Newman, 292

  _New Orleans_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 199

  Newton, 503

  Newton Egg (syn. of Newtown Egg), 503

  Newtown Egg, 503

  New Transparent Gage (syn. of Early Transparent Gage), 440

  New Ulm, 293

  _New Washington_ (syn. of Washington), 368

  New Wine Sour, 504

  _New York Purple_ (syn. of Brevoort Purple), 408

  _Niagara_ (syn. of Bradshaw), 166

  Nicholas, 295

  Niemburg Egg; _Nienburger Eierpflaume_ (syns. of Nienburger Egg
        Plum), 504

  Nienburger Egg Plum, 504

  Nikitaer Blaue Frühzwetsche, 504

  Nikitaer Dattelzwetsche, 504

  Nikitaer Frühe Königspflaume; _Nikitaner Frühe Königspflaume_;
        _Nikita’s Frühe Königs Pflaume_ (syns. of Early Royal of
        Nikita), 440

  Nikitaer Hahnenpflaume, 504

  _Nikitaner Hahnenhode_ (syn. of Nikitaer Hahnenpflaume), 504

  Nikko, 504

  Nimon, 504

  _Noble Précoce_ (syn. of Edle Early), 441

  Noire Americaine, 504

  _Noire de Montreuil_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  Noire de Montreuil, 504

  _Noire Hâtif_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  _Noire Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Noisette, M., var. orig. by, 550

  Nolan, 504

  _Nolen Plum_ (syn. of Wild Goose), 378

  Nolton Ungarische, 505

  Nome, 505

  Nona, 505

  Nonesuch; Nonsuch (syns. of Lucombe), 271

  _Nonpareil_ (syn. of Incomparable), 467

  Norbert, 505

  _Norbert_; Norbert’s Pflaume (syns. of Norbert), 505

  Norby, 505

  Norby, A., var. orig. by, 505

  Norby No. 1, 505

  Norby No. 11, 505

  Norman, 505

  Normand, Joseph L., life of, 506;
    var. orig. by, 451, 486, 506

  _Normand_; Normand Japan; _Normand’s Japan_; _Normand Yellow_ (syns.
        of Georgeson), 218

  _Normande précoce_ (syn. of Early Normandy), 439

  _Normand No. 5_ (syn. of Alabama), 392

  _Normand No. 15_ (syn. of Louisiana), 486

  Normand Perdrigon, 505

  Normand No. 5, 506; No. 11, 506; No. 12, 506; No. 15, 506; No. 16,
        506; No. 17, 506; No. 18, 507; No. 19, 507; No. 20, 507

  Normand’s Seedlings, 506

  Normannischer Perdrigon; _Norman Perdrigon_ (syns. of Normand
        Perdrigon), 505

  North, 507

  North, Professor, var. orig. by, 507

  North Carolina, 507

  _North Carolina Seedling_ (syn. of North Carolina), 507

  _North’s Seedling_ (syn. of North), 507

  North Star, 507

  Nota Bene, 507

  _Nota Bene de Corse_ (syn. of Nota Bene), 507

  _Nouvelle_; _Nouvelle De Dorrel_; Nouvelle De Dorelle; _Nouveau De
        Dorrelle_ (syns. of Dorell), 434

  _Nouvelle Goutte d’Or_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 229

  November Gage, 507

  Noyes, 507

  Noyes, Mrs., var. orig. by, 507

  _Noyes’ Seedling_ (syn. of Noyes), 507

  _No. 3_ (syn. of Early Red), 440

  No. 11 (syn. of Norby No. 11), 505

  _113 Riga_ (syn. of Merunka), 494

  _116 Riga_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _No. 31,288_ (syn. of First), 446

  Nurseries, commercial, early origin of, 323-325

  _Nutmeg_ (syn. of Christian, 418; of Wheat, 563)

  Nutmeg, 508


  Oakley Park Wild, 508

  Oatey, 508

  Oberdieck, quoted, 263, 433

  Oberdieck Gestreifte Eierpflaume, 508

  _Oberdiecks Frühe Aprikosenpflaume_ (syn. of Early Apricot), 437

  Oberholtzer, George U., var. orig. by, 416

  Oberley, 508

  _Oberley’s Greenwood_ (syn. of Oberley), 508

  Occident, 295

  Ocheda (syn. of Ocheeda), 296

  Ocheeda, 296

  October, 297, 508

  _October Gage_ (syn. of Frost Gage), 216

  _October Green Gage_ (syn. of Late Reine Claude), 481

  October Mirabelle (syn. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _October Purple_ (syn. of October), 297

  Oddy, 508

  Oddy’s (syn. of Oddy), 508

  Odegaard (syn. of Odegard), 508

  Odegard, 508

  Odell, 508

  _Oeil de Boeuf_; _Oeuil-de-Boeuf_ (syns. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Oeuf Rouge_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Ogan_ (syn. of Ogon), 298

  Ogden (syn. of Ogon), 298

  Ogeechee, 508

  Oglesby, 508

  Ogon, 298

  _Ogon_ (syn. of Ogon), 298

  _O-Hatankyo_; O-hattankio (syn. of Chabot), 172

  Ohio, 509

  _Ohio Prolific_ (syn. of Ohio), 509

  Okaw, 509

  _Oktoberpflaume_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  Oku Botan, 509

  _Old Apricot_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  Old Gold, 509

  _Old Hickory_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  _Old Orleans_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  Olive, 509

  Ollie, 509

  Olson, 509

  Omaha, 509

  Omega, 509

  Onderdonk, Gilbert, life of, 392;
    var. orig. by, 392, 421, 439, 472, 501, 516

  Onderka Damascene, 509

  _Onderka_ (syn. of Onderka Damascene), 509

  Ontario, 509

  Opata, 509

  Orange, 300, 510

  _Orange_; _Orange Gage_ (syns. of Orange), 300

  Orange Cherry, 510

  _Orange’s Cherry Plum_ (syn. of Orange Cherry), 510

  _Orel 19_; Orel No. 19 (syn. of Long Red), 485

  _Orel No. 20_ (syn. of Long Blue), 485

  Orel No. 21, 510

  Oren, J. K., var. orig. by, 301

  Oren, 300

  Orenge, 510

  _Orient_ (syn. of Chabot), 172

  Oriental, 510

  Orillia, 510

  Oriole (syn. of Abundance), 136

  Orleans, 302

  _Orleans_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 199

  _Orleans_; _Orleans Red Damask_ (syns. of Orleans), 302

  _Orleans Late Black_ (syn. of Late Orleans), 265

  Osage, 510

  Osage 48 (syn. of Osage), 510

  _Osterreichische Pflaume_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Oswego_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Ottoman; _Ottomanische Kaiserpflaume_ (syns. of Imperial Ottoman), 467

  Ottoman Seedling, 510

  _Ouillin’s Gage_, _Golden_, _Golden Gage_ or _Green Gage_ (syns. of
        Oullins), 303

  Oullins, 303

  Outremont, 510

  Oval Blood (syn. of Occident), 295

  Ovalrunde Spreckel Pflaume (syn. of Gisborne), 451

  Overall, 510

  Owatonna, 510

  Owen, 511

  Owen Sound Beauty (syn. of Owen), 511

  Oxford, 511

  Oyama, 511


  Pacific, 305

  _Pacific_; Pacific Prune (syns. of Pacific), 305

  Paddock, Captain, var. orig. by, 511

  Paddock Magnum Bonum, 511

  Paine, 511

  Paine, A. W., var. orig. by, 511

  Paine’s Seedling (syn. of Paine), 511

  Paisan Blanche, 511

  Paisan Blanche et Double (syn. of Paisan Blanche), 511

  Paisan Noire, 511

  Palatine, 307

  Palmer, 511

  Pander, 511

  Papeleu, 512

  Pappaconi, 512

  Paquet, 512

  Paquet, C. G., var. orig. by, 513

  Paragon (syn. of Chabot), 172

  Pardee, S. D., var. orig. by, 395

  Paris Belle (syn. of Texas Belle), 552

  Park, 512

  Parker, 512

  _Parker’s Mammoth_ (syn. of Washington), 368

  Parkinson, John, quoted, 28, 32, 373, 394, 421, 433, 441, 450, 455,
        490, 509, 510, 513, 543, 559

  _Parmentier_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 229

  Parrott, 512

  Parsonage, 512

  _Parsons_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  Partridge, 512

  Pasqua, 512

  _Paterson’s_ (syn. of Gisborne), 451

  Pathfinder, 512

  Patten, A., 513

  Patten, B., 513

  Patten, C. G., var. orig. by, 513

  _Patten No. 40_ (syn. of Apple), 396

  Paul, J. M., var. orig. by, 308

  Paul Early, 308

  _Paul’s Earliest_ (syn. of Paul Early), 308

  _Paul Wolf_ (syn. of Bender), 401

  _P. biferum_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  _P. Damascena Armeniacea_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  Peach (syn. of Knudson), 477

  _Peach_ (syn. of Nectarine, 291; of Peach, 309; of White Virginal,
        565)

  Peach, 309

  Peach Leaf, 513

  _Peachleaf_ (syn. of Peach Leaf), 513

  _Peach-leaved_ (syn. of Kanawha), 474

  _Peach Plum_ (syn. of Nectarine, 291; of Peach, 309)

  Peach Plum (syn. of Peach-plum), 513

  Peach-plum, 513

  Peake, 513

  Pearl, 310, 513

  Pear Plum, 513

  Pearson, H. A., quoted, 340, 435

  Peasant, 513

  Peascod Plum (syn. of White Peascod), 564

  _Pêche_; _Pêche de Calvel_ (syns. of Nectarine, 291; of Peach, 309)

  Peerless, 513

  Peffer, G. P., var. orig. by, 406, 467

  Peffer’s Premium (syn. of Premium), 518

  Pekin, 513

  Pendent, 514

  Penn, William, quoted, 20

  Penning, 514

  Penning, Martin, var. orig. by, 356, 507, 514

  Penning Peach, 514

  _Penning’s Free_ (syn. of Penning), 514

  Pennock, 514

  Pennock, C. E., var. orig. by, 514, 550

  Pennock’s Hybrid (syn. of Pennock), 514

  Penobscot, 514

  Peoly Early Blue, 514

  _Perdigevena_; _Perdigon_; Perdrigon; _Perdrigon Violet_ or
        _Violette_ (syns. of Blue Perdrigon), 164

  _Perdrigon Bariole_ (syn. of Bunter Perdrigon), 412

  _Perdrigon blanc_ (syn. of White Perdrigon), 375

  _Perdrigon de Brignole_; Perdrigon de Brignole Gros (syns. of
        Brignole), 409

  _Perdrigon de Normandie_ (syn. of Normand Perdrigon), 505

  Perdrigon des Alpes, 514

  Perdrigon group, 31, 32

  _Perdrigon Hâtif_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 194

  _Perdrigon hâtif_ or _hâtive_ (syns. of Early Perdrigon), 439

  _Perdrigon Jaune_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 195

  _Perdrigon Normand_ (syn. of Normand Perdrigon), 506

  Perdrigon of Cernay, 514

  _Perdrigon rouge_ (syn. of Red Perdrigon), 528

  Perdrigon Tardif, 515

  _Perdrigon Violet_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Perdrigon Violet Hâtif (syn. of Early Perdrigon), 439

  _Perfection_ (syn. of Wickson), 376

  _Perry’s Seedling_ (syn. of Oriental), 510

  Pershore, 515

  Pershore Yellow Egg (syn. of Pershore), 515

  _Persing Nos. 1, 2_ (syn. of Burbank), 170

  Peters, 312

  Peter’s Large Yellow; _Peter’s Yellow Gage_; Peters’ Yellow Gage;
        _Peters Yellow Gage_ (syns. of Peters), 312

  Peterson, var. orig. by, 143

  _Petit Bricette_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _Petit Damas Blanc_ (syn. of Small White Damson), 545

  Petit Damas Rouge (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  _Petit Damas Vert_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  _Petit Drap d’Or_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Petite_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _Petite Bricette_ (syn. of Saint Catherine, 334; of Late Mirabelle,
        263)

  _Petite d’Agen_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _Petite Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Petite Prune_ or _Prune d’Agen_ (syns. of Agen), 138

  Petite Quetsche Sucrée, 515

  _Petite Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  _Petit-Monsieur_ (syn. of Marange), 490

  _Petit prunallier_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  _Petit Saint Julien_ (syn. of Saint Julien), 335

  _Pfirschenpflaume_ (syn. of Goliath), 231

  _Pflaume Mit dem Pfirsichblatt_ or _mit dem Pfirschenblatt_ (syns. of
        Italian Prune), 253

  _Pflaume Ohne Steine_ (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  Pflaume Von Gondin (syn. of Gondin), 454

  _Pflaume von St. Etienne_ (syn. of St. Etienne), 537

  _Philippe I_ (syn. of Washington), 368

  Phillips, Henry, quoted, 29

  Phiolenartige Gelbe Zwetsche, 515

  Pickett, var. orig. by, 329

  _Pickett’s July_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Pigeon’s Heart_ (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  Pilot, 515

  Pink Damson, 515

  Pioneer Prune, 515

  Piper, 515

  _Piper’s Peach_ (syn. of Piper), 515

  Piram, 516

  Pissardi, 516

  _Pitch Plum_ (syn. of Moyen), 500

  _Pitless_ (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  Plantz, 516

  Plantz’s Seedling (syn. of Plantz), 516

  Platt, Judge, var. orig. by, 269

  _Platte Hellrothe Königspflaume_ (syn. of Procureur), 520

  Plattman, J. H., var. orig. by, 411

  _Plattman’s Bunker Hill_ (syn. of Bunker Hill), 411

  _Plattrunde Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Aplatie), 523

  Pliny, quoted, 16, 17, 28, 36

  Plumcot (syn. of Rutland Plumcot), 333

  Plum crop, production of, in U. S. in 1899, 100

  Plum culture, 100

  _Plum de l’Inde_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Plum growing, location of, in New York, 100

  _Plum of Louvain_ (syn. of Belle de Louvain), 400

  Plums,
    blooming dates and season of ripening of, 105-109;
    characteristics of, 6-9;
    conspectus of species of, 9-11;
    cultivation of, 120-121;
    discussion of insects detrimental to, 131-135;
    diversity of kinds of, 4-6;
    hardiness of, 102-104;
    harvesting and marketing of, 122-125;
    locations and soils for, 113, 114;
    minor diseases of, 129-131;
    pollination of, 110;
    setting of trees of, 120;
    sexual affinities of varieties of, 112-113;
    subjection of, to diseases, 125;
    varieties of, grown in New York, 101

  Plum Simon (syn. of Simon), 346

  Plunk, 516

  _Podiebrader Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Perdrigon), 528

  Poiteau, quoted, 428

  Pomology, origin of, in America, 18-26

  Pomona, 516

  Pomaria, 516

  Pomeranzen Zwetsche (syn. of Orange), 300

  Pond, 313

  Pond, var. orig. by, 314

  Pond Seedling; _Pond’s Purple_; Pond’s Samling; _Pond’s Seedling_
        (syns. of Pond), 314

  Pond Purple, 516

  _Pond’s Purple_ (syn. of Pond Purple), 516

  Pond’s Seedling (syn. of Pond Purple), 516

  _Pond’s Seedling_ (English) (syn. of Pond), 314

  Pontbriant, 517

  Pontford, 517

  Pontotoc, 517

  _Poole_; _Poole’s Pride_ (syns. of Poole Pride), 315

  Poole Pride, 315

  Porsch Rote Zwetsche, 517

  Pottawattamie, 517

  Potter, 517

  Poupart, 517

  Poupart’s (syn. of Poupart), 517

  Pourprée De Duane; _Pourpré Duane_ (syns. of Duane), 196

  _Pourprée de Pond_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Pourprée Impériale (syn. of Imperial Purple), 467

  Powell Damson, 517

  Prairie (syn. of Prairie Flower), 517

  Prairie Flower, 517

  _Prairie Flower_ (syn. of Prairie Flower), 517

  Prairie Rose, 517

  Pratt, D. U., var. orig. by, 396

  _Précoce_ (syn. of White Virginal), 565

  _Précoce Biondeck_ (syn. of Biondeck), 403

  _Précoce De Bergthold_ (syn. of Early Mirabelle), 439

  Précoce Defresne, 517

  Précoce de Freudenberg, 517

  _Précoce de Freudenberg_ (syn. of Précoce de Freudenberg), 517

  Précoce de Lucas, 518

  _Précoce de Lucas_ (syn. of Précoce de Lucas), 518

  Précoce de Reutlinger, 518

  Précoce de Reutlinger Prune (syn. of Précoce de Reutlinger), 518

  _Précoce de Rivers_ (syn. of Early Favorite), 438

  _Précoce de Tours_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Précoce Veritable_ (syn. of Wahre Frühzwetsche), 560

  Premium, 518

  Preserver, 518

  President, 518

  President Courcelle (syn. of President Courcelles), 518

  President Courcelles, 518

  President Wilder (syn. of Wilder), 565

  Presley, 519

  Price, 519

  Pride (syn, of Shipper), 341

  _Pride of Waterloo_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  _Pride of Waterloo?_ (syn. of Pride of Waterloo), 519

  Pride of Waterloo, 519

  Primate, 519

  Primordian (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Prince_ (syn. of Gloucestershire Violet), 452

  Prince, 519

  Prince, William, life of, 389;
    quoted, 23, 24, 30, 38, 231, 310, 369, 417;
    var. orig. by, 252, 369, 389, 467, 519, 520, 527

  Prince, William Robert, life of, 24;
    quoted, 31

  Prince Albert? (syn. of Wales), 366

  _Prince De Galles_ (syn. of Wales), 366

  Prince Engelbert; _Prince Englebert_ (syns. of Englebert), 204

  _Prince of Wales_ (syn. of Wales), 366

  _Prince’s Blue Primordian_ (syn. of Prince Primordian), 520

  Prince Early Damson, 519

  _Prince’s Early Purple_ (syn. of Prince Early Damson), 519

  Prince’s Gage (syn. of Yellow Gage), 388

  _Prince’s Gage_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  Prince’s Gelbe Reine-Claude (syn. of Yellow Gage), 388

  Prince’s Imperial Gage (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  Prince’s Kaiser Reine-Claude (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  Prince Orange Egg, 519

  _Prince’s Orange Egg_ (syn. of Prince Orange Egg), 519

  Prince Orange Gage, 519

  Prince Primordian, 520

  _Prince’s Red Gage_ (syn. of Red Gage), 527

  Prince’s Rote Reine-Claude (syn. of Red Gage), 527

  _Prince’s White Gage_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  _Prince’s Yellow Gage_ (syn. of Yellow Gage), 388

  Pringle, 520

  Pringle Blue, 520

  Pringle Purple, 520

  _Prinz Engelbert_ (syn. of Englebert), 204

  _Prinzens Kaiser Reine Claude_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  _Prinzens rothe Reineclaude_ (syn. of Red Gage), 527

  _Prinzessinpflaume_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Prinzessin Pflaume_ (syn. of Imperatrice, 249; of Red Diaper, 323)

  Prinz Von Wales (syn. of Wales), 366

  Prochaska, Herr, var. orig. by, 142

  Procureur, 520

  _Prof. Budd_ (syn. of Budd), 410

  _Prof. Craig_ (syn. of Craig), 424

  Prof. Goff (syn. of Goff), 452

  Prof. Price (syn. of Price), 519

  Prof. Wittmack, 520

  Profuse, 520

  _Prolific_ (syn. of Crittenden, 184; of Hale, 237)

  _Prolific Damson_ (syn. of Crittenden), 184

  _Prolifique Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Rivers), 200

  _Proune bissioque_ (Roumanie) (syn. of Hungarian Musk Prune), 465

  _Provence Damask_ (syn. of Damas de Provence), 426

  Provencer Königspflaume (syn. of Damas de Provence), 426

  _Provinz Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Pointue), 524

  Pruine Damson? (syn. of Shropshire), 344

  _Prunallier_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  Prune (syn. of Shropshire), 344

  Prune-Abricot; _Prune Abricote_, Abricotée, Abricotée Blanche,
        _Abricotée de Tours_ (syns. of Apricot), 148

  _Prune-Abricot de Royer_ (syn. of Royer Aprikosen Pflaume), 535

  Prune Abricotée Rouge (syn. of Red Apricot), 321

  _Prune à Fleurs Doubles_ or _à fleurs semi-doubles_ (syns. of Double
        Flowering Gage), 192

  _Prune Allemand_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Pruneau, 520

  _Pruneau de Tours_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  _Pruneau Jaune de Reizenstein_ (syn. of Reizenstein Yellow Prune), 531

  Prune Autumn Gage (syn. of Autumn Gage), 398

  _Pruneaux de Tours_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Prune Bleue de Belgique (syn. of Belgian Purple), 157

  _Prune bifere_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  Prune Buel’s Favorite (syn. of Buel), 411

  _Prune Celeste_ (syn. of Elsner Grüne Zwetsche), 442

  _Prune Cerise_, _Ceriset_, _Cerisette_ or Cerizette (syns. of
        Myrobalan), 290

  Prune coeur de pigeon verd (syn. of Grüne Herzformige), 456

  _Prune Cordiforme_ (syn. of Herzformige Pflaume), 461

  _Prune d’Abricos_ (syn. of Red Apricot), 321

  _Prune d’Abricot_ (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  _Prune d’Abricot_, _d’Abricot bigarree_, _Blanch_, _de France_ or
        _Ordinaire_ (syns. of Apricot), 148

  Prune d’Abricot rouge (syn. of Red Apricot), 321

  _Prune d’Agen_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  Prune d’Agen Double, 520

  _Prune d’Allemagne_; _d’Allemagne la commune_ (syns. of German
        Prune), 219

  _Prune d’Altesse_ (syn. of German Prune, 219; of Suisse, 549)

  Prune de Altesse (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  _Prune d’Altesse blanche_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Prune d’Altesse Blanche_ (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  _Prune d’Amerique Rouge_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Prune d’Amour, 520

  Prune Damas d’Italie (syn. of Italian Damask), 470

  Prune Damas de Provence (syn. of Damas de Provence), 426

  Prune Damas de Septembre (syn. of September Damask), 542

  Prune Damas D’Espagne (syn. of Spanish Damask), 546

  Prune Dame Aubert or d’Aubert (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Prune Damson_ (syn. of Shropshire), 344

  _Prune d’Ante_ or _d’Ast_ (syns. of Agen), 138

  _Prune Datte_ (syn. of Date, 428; of Red Date, 322; of Weisse
        Kaiserin, 563)

  _Prune-Datte_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Prune Datte Violette_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Prune Dauphine (syn. of Dauphine), 428

  Prune d’Automne, 520

  Prune d’Automne de Schamal; _Prune d’Automne de Schamali_ (syns. of
        Schamal), 540

  _Prune d’Autriche_ (syn. of Date, 428; of Hungarian, 246; of Red
        Date, 322)

  _Prune d’Avoine_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Prune de Bavay_ (syn. of Bavay), 155

  _Prune De Besançon_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Prune de Bordeaux_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  Prune de Bordeaux (syn. of Saint Antoine), 537

  _Prune de Bourgoyne_ (syn. of Burgundy Prune), 412

  _Prune De Briançon_ (syn. of Briançon, 409; of Red Diaper, 323)

  _Prune de Brigantiaca_ (syn. of Briançon), 409

  Prune de Brignole (syn. of Brignole), 409

  _Prune de Brignole_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  Prune Decaisne (syn. of DeCaisne), 187

  _Prune de Catalogne_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Prune de Cheval_ (syn. of Horse), 464

  _Prune de Chypre_ (syn. of Chypre, 418; of Musk Damson, 501; of Red
        Diaper, 323)

  _Prune de Coulommiers_ (syn. of Coulommiers), 423

  _Prune de Délices_ (syn. of De Délice), 429

  _Prune de Deux Saisons_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  _Prune de Double_ (syn. of Double), 435

  _Prune de Gaillon_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Prune de Gondin_ (syn. of Gondin), 454

  _Prune de Jerusalem_ (syn. of Gelbe Jerusalempflaume, 450; of
        Jerusalem, 472)

  _Prune de Kirchhof_ (syn. of Capitaine Kirchhof), 414

  _Prune de Kirke_ (syn. of Kirke), 260

  Prune de Laghouat, 520

  _Prune de la Gallissioniere_ (syn. of _P. americana_), 59

  _Prune de la Madeleine_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Prune de la St. Martin_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Prune de Lepine_ (syn. of Norbert), 505

  _Prune de Louvain_ (syn. of Belle de Louvain), 400

  _Prune de Malte_ or _de Malthe_ (syns. of Musk Damson), 501

  _Prune de Milan_ (syn. of Impériale de Milan), 467

  _Prune de Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Prime de Monsieur_ (syn. of Early Tours, 202; of Orleans, 302; of
        Yellow Egg, 386)

  _Prune de Monsieur Hâtif_ or _Hâtive_ (syns. of Early Orleans), 199

  _Prune de Monsieur Jaune_ or _Varietè Jaune_ (syns. of Yellow
        Impératrice), 569

  _Prune de Monsieur Tardive_ (syn. of Suisse), 549

  Prune de Montfort (syn. of De Montfort), 430

  _Prune d’Ente_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  Prune d’Ente (syn. of Sergeant), 339

  Prune d’Ente Impériale, 521

  _Prune de Orange_ (syn. of Orange), 510

  _Prune de Paisan blanche and simple_ (syn. of Paisan Blanche), 511

  Prune de Paisan Noire (syn. of Paisan Noire), 511

  _Prune de Pologne_ (syn. of Quetsche Dr. Létricourt), 524

  Prune De Pontbriant (syn. of Pontbriant), 517

  _Prune de Prince_ (syn. of Norbert), 505

  Prune de Prince (syn. of Prune de Seigneur), 521

  Prune de Reine Claude (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Prune de Rudolphe, 521

  _Prune de Reizenstein_ (syn. of Reizenstein Yellow Prune), 531

  _Prune de St. Barnabe_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Prune de Sainte Catherine_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  _Prune de St. Jean_ (syn. of Early St. John), 440

  _Prune de Saint-Jean_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  _Prune de St. Jean_ (syn. of St. John), 537

  _Prune de Savoye_ (syn. of Isle-Verte), 470

  _Prune des Béjonnieres_ (syn. of Béjonnières), 157

  Prune Des Burettes (syn. of Burettes), 412

  Prune de Seigneur, 521

  _Prune de Vacance_ (syn. of September Damask), 542

  _Prune de Virginie_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Prune de Wangenheim_ (syn. of Wangenheim), 368

  _Prune de Waterloo_ (syn. of Waterloo Pflaume), 561

  _Prune Diademe_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Prune Diaphane_ or _Diaphane Laffay_ (syns. of Transparent), 360

  Prune Diaprée Blanche (syn. of Diaprée Blanche), 432

  Prune Diaprée Rouge (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Prune d’Inde Blanc_ or _Blanche, d’Oeuf_, or _d’Oeuf blanche_ (syns.
        of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Prune d’Italie_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  _Prune d’oeuf_ or _d’Oeuf Violette_ (syns. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Prune d’Oeuf Marbrée_ (syn. of Marmorierte Eierpflaume), 491

  _Prune d’Orleans_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Prune du Roi_ (syn. of Agen, 138; of Early Orleans, 199)

  Prune Early Favorite (syn. of Early Favorite), 438

  _Prune Eugene Simon_ (syn. of Simon), 346

  _Prune-figue_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Prune Figue_; _Prune figue grosse rouge_; (syns. of Red Date), 322

  _Prune Gonne_ (syn. of Gonne), 454

  _Prune Goutte d’Or De Coe_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 229

  Prune Gros-Damas Violet (syn. of Damas Violet), 427

  Prune Grosse Quetsche Nouvelle (syn. of Dorell), 434

  Prune group, history of, in America, 30, 31;
    origin of, 30;
    specific characters of, 31;
    typical varieties of, 31

  _Prune Ileverte_ (syn. of Isle-Verte), 470

  Prune Impératrice (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  Prune Impératrice Blanche (syn. of White Impératrice), 375

  Prune Impératrice Violette (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Prune Impériale de Sharp (syn. of Sharp), 340

  Prune Impériale Violette (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Prune Isabelle_ (syn. of Isabella), 469

  _Prune Jacinthe_ (syn. of Jacinthe), 471

  _Prune Kanawa_ (syn. of Kanawha), 474

  _Prune Kirke_ (syn. of Kirke), 260

  Prune Lawrence’s Gage (syn. of Lawrence), 266

  _Prunelier_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  _Prunelle_ (syn. of Orleans, 302; of Sloe, 544)

  Prune-making, growth of, 31

  _Prune Maraichère_ (syn. of Quetsche Maraichère), 524

  _Prune-Massot_ (syn. of Oullins), 303

  Prune Monarque (syn. of Monarch), 286

  _Prune Monsieur_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Prune Monsieur Jaune_ (syn. of Early Yellow, 203; of Yellow
        Impératrice, 569)

  _Prune nain_ (syn. of Zwergpflaume), 571

  _Prune noire hâtive_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Prune nouvelle de Dorrel_ (syn. of Dorell), 434

  _Prune OEuf_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Prune-oeuf_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  Pruneola (syn. of Sloe), 544

  _Prune-Pêche_ (syn. of White Perdrigon), 375

  _Prune Pêche_ (syn. of Nectarine, 291; of Peach, 309)

  Prune-Pêche (syn. of Goliath), 231

  _Prune-Pêche De Calvel_ (syn. of Peach), 309

  Prune Perdrigon hâtif (syn. of Early Perdrigon), 439

  Prune Perdrigon Normand (syn. of Normand Perdrigon), 506

  _Prune Petit Damas Blanc_ (syn. of Small White Damson), 545

  _Prune Plum_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Prune poire grosse violette_ (syn. of Pear Plum), 513

  _Prune de Pologne_ (syn. of Quetsche Dr. Létricourt), 524

  _Prune Précoce?_ (syn. of White Virginal), 565

  Prune Prince of Whales (syn. of Wales), 366

  _Prune qui fructifie deux fois l’an_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  Prune Quetsch (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Prune Reine Blanche (syn. of White Queen), 564

  Prune Reine-Claude Gabriel Combes (syn. of Gabriel Combes), 449

  Prune Reine Claude Violette (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  Prune Reine Victoria (syn. of Victoria), 363

  _Prune Rouge De Bleeker_ (syn. of Lombard), 268

  _Prune Royale_ (syn. of Royal), 534

  _Prune Royale de Tours_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  Prunes, definition of, 30;
    process of making, 124-126

  _Prune Sainte-Catherine_ or _Sainte-Catherine Jaune_ (syns. of Saint
        Catherine), 334

  Prune Sans-Noyau (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  _Prune Sauvage_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  _Prune Semi-double_ (syn. of Double Flowering Gage), 192

  _Prune Suisse_ (syn. of Italian Prune, 253; of Suisse, 549)

  _Prune Violet de Jerusalem_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Prune Violette D’Octobre_ (syn. of Saint Martin Quetsche), 538

  _Prune Virginale_ (syn. of White Virginal), 565

  _Prune Wangenheim Hâtive_ (syn. of Wangenheim), 368

  Prune Washington Jaune (syn. of Washington), 368

  _Prune Zwetschen_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Prunier à fleur semi-double_ (syn. of Double Flowering Gage), 192

  _Prunier Allemand_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Prunier bifere_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  _Prunier d’Agen_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  Prunier Damas à petit fruit blanc (syn. of Small White Damson), 545

  _Prunier Datte_ (syn. of Sergeant), 339

  _Prunier de Jerusalem_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Prunier de Saint Martin_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Prunier de Simon_ (syn. of Simon), 346

  _Prunier des Vacances_ (syn. of September Damask), 542

  _Prunier de Tillemond_ (syn. of Tillemond), 554

  _Prunier de Virginie_ (syn. of _P. americana_), 59

  _Prunier epineux_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  _Prunier Fleurissant et Poussant Deux Fois_ (syn. of Twice Bearing),
        556

  Prunier Myrobolan (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Prunier qui fructifie deux fois par l’an_ (syn. of Twice Bearing),
        556

  Prunier Sainte-Catherine (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Prunier Saint-Julien (syn. of Saint Julien), 335

  _Prunum Pyrinum praecox_ (syn. of Early Pear), 439

  Prunus, differences between fruits of, 2, 3;
    genus, species included, 1;
    history of, 1, 2;
    horticultural value of, 4;
    variability of, 3, 4
    _acutifolia_, 48
    _alleghaniensis_, characters of, 72, 73;
      comparison of, with _P. americana_, 73;
      habitat of, 73, 74;
      specific description of, 72-74
    _Americana_ (syn. of _P. hortulana_), 64;
      (syn. of _P. nigra_), 69;
      adaptation of, to cross-pollination, 62, 63;
      characters of, 56, 57;
      history of, 58-61;
      introduction of, into Europe, 59;
      natural habitat of, 57, 58;
      specific description of, 56-63;
      tree and fruit characters of, 61, 62
    _Americana lanata_ (syn. of _P. americana mollis_), 63
    _Americana Mollis_, specific description of, 63, 64
    _Americana Nigra_ (syn. of _P. nigra_), 69
    _angustifolia_, characters of, 82;
      original habitat of, 82, 83;
      specific description of, 82-85
    _angustifolia varians_, characters, 87, 88;
      specific description of, 87, 88
    _angustifolia watsoni_, characters of, 85, 86;
      habitat of, 86;
      specific description of, 85-87
    _armeniaca dasycarpa_, 48
    _bifera_ (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556
    _bokhariensis_, 50
    _Calvellana_ (syn. of Early Perdrigon), 439
    _Catalana_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203
    _Catalanica_ (syn. of Catalana), 415
    _Catalonica_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203
    _Catelana_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203
    _cerasifera_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290;
      characters of, 45, 46;
      early history of, 46, 47;
      specific description of, 45-48;
      tree and fruit characters of, 47, 48
    _cerasifera atropurpurea_, 48
    _Cerasifera Atropurpurea_ (syn. of Pissardi), 516
    _Cerasifera fructu majore_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290
    _Cerasifera Fructu Minore_ (syn. of Kleine Kirschpflaume), 476
    _Cerasifera Zanthocarpa_ (syn. of Gelbe Kirschpflaume), 450
    _chicasa_ (syn. of _P. augustifolia_), 82
    _chicasa var. normalis_ (syn. of _P. gracilis_), 98
    _cocomilia_, characters of, 44, 45;
      specific description of, 44, 45
    _cocomilia brutia_, 45
    _cocomilia puberula_, 45
    _cocomilia typica_, 45
    _communis_ (syn. of _P. insititia_), 34;
      (syn. of _P. triflora_), 49
    _communis domestica_ (syn. of _P. domestica_), 12
    _contorta_, 48
    _curdica_, specific description of, 44
    _damascena dominicalis praecox_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 199
    _dasycarpa_, 48
    _divaricata_, 46, 47
    _domestica_ (syn. of _P. triflora_), 49;
      characters of, 12;
      division of and how divided, 26;
      history of, in America, 18-26;
      origin of, 12-18;
      specific description of, 12-34
    _Domestica Cereola_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327
    _domestica insititia_ (syn. of _P. insititia_), 34
    _Domestica Juliana_ (syn. of Saint Julien), 335
    _domestica myrobalan_ (syn. of _P. cerasifera_), 45
    _Domestica var. cereola_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327
    _Domestica var. Claudiana_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327
    _elegans_, 48
    _exigua_, 13
    _fruticans_, 43
    _gigantea_, 48
    _gracilis_, characters of, 98;
      natural habitat of, 98;
      specific description of, 98, 99
    _gravesii_, comparison of, with _P. maritima_, 96, 97;
      characters of, 96;
      specific description of, 96, 97
    _hattan_ Tamari (syn. of _P. triflora_), 49
    _hispanica_ (syn. of Spanish Damask), 546
    _hortulana_ (syn. of _P. munsoniana_), 88;
      characters of, 64, 65;
      groups of hybrids included in, 65, 66;
      habitat of, 66, 67;
      specific description of, 64-68;
      value of, to American pomology, 67
    _hortulana mineri_, specific description of, 68, 69
    _hortulana robusta_, 232
    _hortulana robusta_, discussion of group of, 67, 68
    _ichangana_, 50
    _injucunda_ (syn. of _P. umbellata injucunda_), 79
    _insititia_ (syn. of Damson), 186;
      characters of, 34;
      comparison of, with _P. domestica_, 35, 36;
      discussion as to sub-species included in, 34, 35;
      groups included in, 39;
      habitat of, in the Old World, 37;
      history of, in America, 37-39;
      specific description of, 34-42
    _insititia glaberrima_, 36
    _Insititia var._ (syn. of Saint Julien), 335
    _italica_ (syn. of Italian Damask), 470;
      (syn. of _P. domestica_), 12
    _japonica_ (syn. of _P. triflora_), 49
    _lanata_ (syn. of _P. americana mollis_), 63
    _littoralis_ (syn. of _P. maritima_), 92
    _lutea_, 13;
      (syn. of Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling), 451
    _maritima_, characters of, 92;
      habitat of, 93, 94;
      specific description of, 92-96;
      value of, 94, 95
    _mitis_, characters of, 80;
      specific description of, 80, 81
    _mollis_ (syn. of _P. nigra_), 69
    _monticola_, characters of, 49;
      specific description of, 49
    _munsoniana_, characters of, 88, 89;
      comparison of, with _P. augustifolia_, 90;
      habitat of, 90;
      horticultural value of, 91;
      leading varieties of, 91, 92;
      specific description of, 88-92
    _Myrobalan_ (syn. of _P. cerasifera_), 45
    _Myrobalana_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290
    _Myrobolana_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290
    _neustriensis_ (syn. of Normand Perdrigon), 506
    _nigra_, characters of, 69, 70;
      comparison of, with _P. americana_, 71, 72;
      habitat of, 70, 71;
      specific description of, 69-72
    _œconomica_ (syn. of German Prune), 219;
      (syn. of _P. domestica_), 12
    _orthosepala_, characters of, 97;
      specific description of, 97-98
    _oxycarpa_, 13;
      (syn. of Bechstein Spitzpflaume), 400
    _pendula_, 48
    _Pissardi_ (syn. of Pissardi), 516
    _Pissardii_ (syn. of Pissardi), 516
    _planteriensis_, 48
    _pomarium_, 36
    _provincialis_ (syn. of Damas de Provence), 426
    _pseudoarmeniaca_, 45
    _pubescens_ (syn. of _P. maritima_), 92
    _rivularis_, characters of, 99;
      specific description of, 99
    _rubella_, 13
    _silvestris_ (syn. of Sloe), 544
    _Simoni_ (syn. of Simon), 346
    _Simonii_ (syn. of Simon), 346;
      characters of, 55;
      history of, 56;
      specific description of, 55, 56
    _Spinosa_ (syn. of Sloe), 544;
      characters of, 42;
      general discussion of, 43, 44;
      specific description of, 42-44
    _Spinosa coatanea_, 42
    _Spinosa dasyphylla_, 42
    _Spinosa flore-pleno_, 42, 43
    _Spinosa, foliis lanceolatis_ (syn. of Sloe), 544
    _Spinosa macrocarpa_, 43
    _Spinosa praecox_, 42
    _Spinosa purpurea_, 43
    _spinosa sessiliflora_, 42
    _spinosa typica_, 42
    _subcordata_, characters of, 74;
      habitat of, 74, 75;
      specific description of, 74-77;
      typical form of, 76
    _subcordata kelloggii_, specific description of, 77, 78
    _subrotunda_, 13
    _subsylvestris_, 36
    _sylvestris_, 13
    _syriaca_, 36
    _tarda_, characters of, 81;
      specific description of, 81, 82
    _thibetica_, 50
    _triflora_, botanical differences of, 53, 54;
      characters of, 49, 50;
      early history of, 50-52;
      introduction of, into America, 52;
      natural habitat of, 51;
      specific description of, 49-55;
      value of fruit of, 52, 53;
      variability of, 54, 55
    _umbellata_, characters of, 78;
      habitat of, 79;
      specific description of, 78, 79
    _umbellata injucunda_, characters of, 79, 80;
      specific description of, 79, 80
    _ursina_, 45
    _ursina flava_, 45
    _vinaria_, 13
    _watsoni_ (syn. of _P. augustifolia watsoni_), 85

  Pseudo Mirabelle, 521

  _Purple Damson_ (syn. of Damson, 186; of Winter Damson, 567)

  Purple Diaper (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  _Purple Egg_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum, 326)

  Purple Egg (syn. of Hudson), 243

  _Purple Egg_ (syn. of Duane; of Red Magnum Bonum, 326)

  Purple Favorite, 521

  _Purple Favourite_ (syn. of Purple Favorite), 521

  Purple Flesh, 521

  Purple Gage, 318

  Purple-leaved Hybrid, 521

  Purple-leaved Plum (syn. of Pissardi), 516

  _Purple Magnum Bonum_ (syn. of Duane, 196; of Red Magnum Bonum, 326;
        of Smith Orleans, 348)

  Purple Panhandle, 521

  _Purple winter Damson_ (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  Purple Yosemite, 521

  _Purpur Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Puymirol d’Ente, 522

  P. violette americaine (syn. of American Violet), 394


  Quackenbos (syn. of Quackenboss), 319

  Quackenboss, 319

  Quaker, 522

  Quality, 522

  _Quastche_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Quebec, 522

  Queen, 522

  _Queen Claude_ or _Claudia_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  Queen Claude of Bavay (syn. of Bavay), 155

  _Queene Mother_ (syn. of Myrobalan, 290; of Queen Mother, 522)

  Queen May, 522

  _Queen Mother_ (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  Queen Mother, 522

  Queen of Arkansas, 523

  _Queen Victoria_ (syn. of Sharp, 340; of Victoria, 363)

  _Quetsch_; _Quetsch Allemande_ (syns. of German Prune), 219

  _Quetsch Hongroise_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Quetsch Longue (syn. of German Prune), 219

  _Quetsche_ (syn. of German Prune, 219; of Italian Prune, 253; of
        Korai, 478)

  Quetsche à feuille argentée, 523

  Quetsche Aplatie, 523

  _Quetsche Bleue d’Italie_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  Quetsche Rognon de Coq (syn. of Rognon de Coq), 533

  Quetsche Buhl-Eltershofen, 523

  _Quetsche Commune_; Quetsche D’Allemagne; _Quetsche d’Allemagne
        Grosse_ (syns. of German Prune), 219

  _Quetsche Datte_ (syn. of Date, 428; of Hungarian, 246)

  Quetsche Datte des Allemands, 523

  _Quetsche Datte Violette_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Quetsche de Bazalicza_ (syn. of Bazalicza), 399

  _Quetsche de Breme_ (syn. of Austrian Quetsche), 397

  Quetsche de Dobrowitz, 523

  _Quetsche de Dollan_ (syn. of Dollaner), 433

  _Quetsche De Dorelle_; De Dorelle Nouvelle Grand; _De Dorelle
        Nouvelle Grande_ (syns. of Dorell), 434

  _Quetsche de Doubrawie_ (syn. of Quetsche de Dobrowitz), 523

  _Quetsche de Francfort_ (syn. of Frankfort Peach), 447

  _Quetsche de Hongrie_ (syn. of Date, 428; of Hungarian, 246; of
        Ungarish, 361)

  Quetsche de Kreuter, 523

  _Quetsche de Kreuter_ (syn. of Quetsche de Kreuter), 523

  _Quetsche de Létricourt_ (syn. of Quetsche Dr. Létricourt), 524

  Quetsche de Leipzig (syn. of Merunka), 494

  _Quetsche de Lorraine_, _de Malogne_, or _de Metz_ (syns. of German
        Prune), 220

  Quetsche de Millot, 523

  _Quetsche de Province_ (syn. of Quetsche Pointue), 524

  Quetsche De Ransleben, 523

  _Quetsche des Allemands_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  Quetsche de Transylvanie, 523

  _Quetsche de Transilvanie_ (syn. of Quetsche de Transylvanie), 523

  _Quetsche d’Italie_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  Quetsche Domestique (syn. of German Prune), 220

  Quetsche Dr. Létricourt, 524

  Quetsche Freestone, 524

  _Quetsche Grosse_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  _Quetsche Grosse Blaue de la Worms_ (syn. of Zwetsche von der Worms),
        572

  _Quetsche Grosse Nouvelle De Dorrel_ (syn. of Dorell), 434

  Quetsche Hâtive, 524

  _Quetsche Hâtive de Liegel_ (syn. of Quetsche Précoce Liegel), 525

  _Quetsche Hongroise_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Quetsche Jaune_ (syn. of Quetsche Dr. Létricourt), 524

  _Quetsche Jaune de Hartwiss_ (syn. of Hartwiss), 459

  _Quetsche Jaune de Reizenstein_ (syn. of Reizenstein Yellow Prune),
        531

  Quetsche Jaune Précoce, 524

  _Quetsche Jaune Précoce_ (syn. of Quetsche Jaune Précoce), 524

  _Quetsche Jaune Tardive_ (syn. of Gelbe Spätzwetsche), 451

  Quetsche Longue Précoce, 524

  Quetsche Maraichère, 524

  Quetsche musquée de Hongrie (syn. of Hungarian Musk Prune), 465

  _Quetsche-Pêche de Francfort_ (syn. of Frankfort Peach), 447

  Quetsche Pointue, 524

  Quetsche Précoce de Buhlerthal, 524

  Quetsche Précoce De Frauendorf, 524

  _Quetsche Précoce de Biondeck_ (syn. of Biondeck), 403

  Quetsche Précoce de Fürst (syn. of Fürst), 217

  _Quetsche Précoce de Fürst_ (syn. of Fürst Damson), 448

  Quetsche Précoce Liegel, 525

  _Quetsche Précoce de Liegel_ (syn. of Quetsche Précoce Liegel), 525

  _Quetsche Précoce de Lucas_ (syn. of Précoce de Lucas), 518

  Quetsche Précoce de Reutlingen (syn. of Reutlinger Frühzwetsche), 531

  Quetsche Précoce De Schamal, 525

  _Quetsche Précoce d’Esslingen_ (syn. of Esslinger Frühzwetsche), 444

  _Quetsche Précoce de Wangenheim_ (syn. of Wangenheim), 368

  Quetsche Ronde, 525

  _Quetsche Rouge de Schmidt_ (syn. of Schmidt Rote Zwetsche), 541

  _Quetsche Sucree_ (syn. of Large Sugar Prune), 480

  _Quetsche Turkish_ (syn. of Turkish Prune), 556

  Quetsche Verte D’Italie, 525

  _Quetschen_ (syn. of German Prune), 219

  Quetzen (syn. of German Prune), 220

  Quintinye, quoted, 455, 496, 500, 531

  Quitique, 525


  Rachel, 525

  Rademakers, 525

  Rademaker’s Prune (syn. of Rademakers), 525

  Ragland, 525

  Rainfall, effects of, 104

  _Rains_ (syn. of Kanawha), 474

  Raisin, 525

  Ramsey, F. T., var. orig. by, 525

  Ramsey Last, 525

  Ranette, 526

  _Rang_ (syn. of Lang), 478

  Rangheri, 526

  _Rangheri’s Aprikosen Pflaume_; _Rangheri’s Frühe Gelbe Mirabelle_;
        _Rangheri’s Frühe Mirabelle_; _Rangheri’s Gelbe Mirabelle_;
        Rangheris Mirabelle; _Rangheris Mirabelle_ (syns. of Rangheri),
        526

  _Ranslebens Pflaume_ or _Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche De Ransleben),
        523

  Rareripe, 526

  _Rare Ripe_ (syn. of Rareripe), 526

  Ray, 526

  Raymond, 526

  Raynes, 526

  Rea, John, quoted, 32, 407, 455

  Reagan, 526

  Reagles, C., quoted, 320;
    var. orig. by, 395, 526, 557

  _Reagles’ Ancient City_ (syn. of Ancient City), 395

  Reagles’ Gage (syn. of Reagle Gage), 526

  Reagle Gage, 526

  Reagles’ Union Purple (syn. of Union), 557

  Rebecca, 526

  Reche, 527

  Red Apricot, 321

  _Red Apricot_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Red Apricot_; Red Apricot Plum (syns. of Red Apricot), 321

  Red Aubert (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Red Bonum Magnum_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  Red Cloud, 527

  _Red Damask_ (syn. of Orleans), 302

  _Red Date_, 322

  Red Date-plum (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Red Diaper, 322

  _Red Diaper_; _Red Diaper Plum_; _Red Egg Plum_ (syns. of Red
        Diaper), 323

  _Red Egg_; _Red Egg Plum_ (syns. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Red Fotheringham_ (syn. of Fotheringham), 212

  Red Gage, 527

  _Red Gage_ (syn. of Long Scarlet), 485

  _Red Gage_ (syn. of Red Gage), 527

  Red Gage of Dutchess County, 527

  Red Glass, 527

  Red Glass Junior, 527

  _Red Gold_ (syn. of Gonzales), 232

  Red Horse, 527

  Redick, 527

  _Red Imperial_ (syn. of Impératrice, 249; of Red Diaper, 323)

  Red Imperial (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  Red June, 323

  _Red June_ (syn. of Red June), 324

  Red Magdalene, 527

  _Red Magnum_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  Red Magnum Bonum, 325

  _Red Magnum Bonum_ (syn. of Cooper, 423; of Impératrice, 249; of Red
        Magnum Bonum, 326; of Smith Orleans, 348)

  Red Magnum Bonum (syn. of Duane), 196

  Red May, 527

  Red Mirabelle (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Red Mirobalane (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Red Muscle; Red Mussell (syns. of Muscle), 501

  _Red Nagate_ (syn. of Berger, 160; of Chabot, 172; of Red June, 324)

  Red October, 528

  _Red Orleans_ (syn. of Early Orleans), 199

  _Red Orleans_; Red Orleans Plum (syns. of Orleans), 302

  Red Panhandle, 528

  Red Pear, 528

  Red Peascod, 528

  Red Perdrigon, 528

  _Red Perdrigon_ (syn. of Red Perdrigon), 528

  Red Pescod (syn. of Red Peascod), 528

  Red Plum, 59

  Red Primordian, 528

  _Red Primordian_ (syn. of Red Primordian), 528

  Red Prune, 529

  _Red Queen Mother_ (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  _Red Saint Martin_ or St. Martin (syns. of Saint Martin), 336

  Red Skin, 529

  Red Violet, 529

  Red Virginal, 529

  Red Wheate (syn. of Wheat), 563

  Red Winter, 529

  Reed, 529

  Reed, P. H., var. orig. by, 529

  Reel, 529

  Reeves, Samuel, var. orig. by, 228

  Regina, 529

  _Regina nova_; _Reina Nova_ (syns. of Belle), 158

  _Reina Nova_ or _Reine Nova_ (Berre) (syns. of Belle), 158

  _Reine Blanche_; _Reine Blanche de Galopin_ (syns. of White Queen),
        564

  Reine Claud; _Reine-Claude_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  Reine Claude, 326

  _Reine Claude_ (syn. of Bavay, 155; of Small Reine Claude, 347)

  Reine-Claude Abricotine, 529

  _Reine-Claude à Fleurs Semi-double_ or _fleur semi-double_ (syns. of
        Double Flowering Gage), 192

  _Reine-Claude Alex. Dumas_ (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  _Reine-Claude Aloise_ (syn. of Alois Reine Claude), 393

  _Reine-Claude Althan’s_ (syn. of Altham), 141

  _Reine-Claude Ancienne_, _Blanche_, _Blanche Grosse Espece_, _Blanche
        la Grosse_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  Reine-Claude Azurée (syn. of Azure), 398

  _Reine-Claude Bavay Hâtive_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  _Reine-Claude Blanche_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  _Reine-Claude Blanche de Boston_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  _Reine-Claude Blanche Petite Espece_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  _Reine-Claude Bleue_ (syn. of Blaue Reine Claude), 405

  _Reine-Claude Boddaert_ (syn. of Boddaert), 165

  _Reine-Claude Braunau_ (syn. of Abricotée de Braunau), 391

  Reine-Claude Bryanston (syn. of Bryanston), 168

  Reine-Claude Chauviere (syn. of Chauviere), 417

  _Reine-Claude Comte Althan_ or _d’Althan_; _Reine-Claude d’Althan_;
        _Reine Claude d’Althann_ (syns. of Altham), 141

  _Reine Claude Coulon_ (syn. of Coulon Reine Claude), 423

  _Reine-Claude d’Alois_ (syn. of Alois Reine Claude), 393

  _Reine-Claude d’Angouleme_ (syn. of Angouleme), 395

  Reine-Claude d’Automne (syn. of Autumn Gage), 398

  Reine-Claude Davion (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  _Reine Claude de Bavay_ (syn. of Bavay), 155

  _Reine-Claude de Bavay Hâtive_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  _Reine-Claude De Berger_ (syn. of Peach), 309

  Reine-Claude de Bleecker or _de Bleeker_ (syns. of Bleeker), 163

  _Reine-Claude de Boddaert_ (syn. of Boddaert), 165

  _Reine-Claude de Brahy_ (syn. of Brahy), 408

  Reine Claude de Brignais, 529

  _Reine-Claude de Brignais_ (syn. of Reine Claude de Brignais), 529

  Reine-Claude de Chambourcy (syn. of Chambourcy), 174

  _Reine-Claude de Comte Hathen_ (syn. of Altham), 141

  Reine Claude d’Ecully, 529

  _Reine-Claude de Flushings_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  _Reine-Claude De Guigne_ (syn. of Transparent), 360

  Reine-Claude d’Ecully (syn. of Ecully), 441

  _Reine-Claude de Jodoigne_ (syn. of Jodoigne), 472

  _Reine-Claude de Juillet_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  _Reine-Claude de Lawrence_ (syn. of Lawrence), 266

  Reine Claude de l’Echoisier, 530

  _Reine-Claude de Meroldt_ (syn. of Meroldt), 494

  Reine Claude de Mezel, 530

  Reine-Claude de Monroe (syn. of Monroe), 287

  _Reine-Claude de Montmorency_ (syn. of Montmorency), 499

  Reine Claude de Razaimbaut, 530

  _Reine-Claude de Razaimbaut_ (syn. of Reine Claude de Razaimbaut), 530

  Reine Claude de Saint-Avertin, 530

  Reine Claude Descarde, 530

  Reine-Claude de Schuyler (syn. of Schuyler Gage), 541

  Reine Claude de Vandenbrok, 530

  Reine Claude de Wazon, 530

  Reine-Claude de Webster (syn. of Webster Gage), 562

  Reine-Claude de Woolston (syn. of Woolston), 567

  Reine-Claude D’Henrietta (syn. of Henrietta Gage), 461

  Reine-Claude d’Hudson (syn. of Hudson Gage), 465

  _Reine-Claude Diaphane_ (syn. of Transparent), 360

  _Reine-Claude Diaphane Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Transparent Gage), 440

  Reine Claude d’Oberdieck, 530

  Reine-Claude d’October; _Reine-Claude d’Octobre_ (syns. of Late Reine
        Claude), 481

  _Reine-Claude Dore_; _Reine Claude Dorée_; _Reineclaude d’oree_
        (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Reine-Claude d’Oullins_ (syn. of Oullins), 303

  _Reine-Claude du Comte d’Althan_ or _Hathem_ (syns. of Altham), 141

  _Reine-Claude Geante_ (syn. of Reisenzwetsche), 531

  _Reine-Claude Grosse_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Reine Claude group, 27-29;
    origin of, 27-29;
    character of, 29;
    leading varieties of, 29

  _Reine-Claude Hâtive_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  Reine Claude Hamaitre, 530

  _Reine-Claude Hâtive d’Avion_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  _Reine-Claude Hâtive de Bavay_ (syn. of July Green Gage), 474

  _Reine-Claude Impériale_ or _Impériale de Prince_ (syns. of Imperial
        Gage), 251

  Reine-Claude Jaune De Dana (syn. of Dana Yellow Gage), 428

  Reine-Claude Jaune De Prince (syn. of Yellow Gage), 388

  _Reine-Claude Latinois_ (syn. of Chambourcy), 174

  _Reine-Claude mit Halbgefullter Bluthe_ (syn. of Double Flowering
        Gage), 192

  _Reine-Claude Monot_ (syn. of Bavay), 155

  Reine-Claude Monstreuse de Bavey (syn. of Bavay), 155

  Reine Claude Monstrueuse de Mezel, 530

  _Reine-Claude Moyret_ (syn. of Moyret), 500

  _Reine-Claudenartige Aprikosen Pflaume_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  Reine-Claude Noire de Woolston (syn. of Woolston), 567

  _Reine-Claude Petite_ or _Petite Espèce_ (syns. of Small Reine
        Claude), 347

  _Reine Claude Précoce_ (syn. of Oullins), 303

  _Reine-Claude Précoce de Razimbaud_ (syn. of Reine Claude de
        Razaimbaut), 530

  _Reine-Claude Rouge_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  Reine-Claude Rouge Americaine (syn. of Red Gage), 527

  _Reine-Claude Rouge Comte Althan_; _Rouge de Hathen_; _rouge du comte
        Hethan_; _Rouge du Comte Hethan_ (syns. of Altham), 141

  _Reine-Claude Rouge de Prince_ (syn. of Red Gage), 527

  _Reine-Claude Rouge de Septembre_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  _Reine-Claude Rouge de Van Mons_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  Reine-Claude Rouge of September; _Reine-Claude Rouge Van Mons_ (syns.
        of Belle), 158

  Reine Claude Sagot, 530

  _Reine-Claude Semi-Double_ (syn. of Double Flowering Gage), 192

  _Reine-Claude tardive_ (syn. of Chambourcy), 174

  _Reine-Claude Tardive_ (syn. of Late Reine Claude), 481

  Reine-Claude Tardive de Chambourcy; _Reine-Claude Tardive Latinois_
        (syns. of Chambourcy), 174

  _Reine Claude Transparent_; _Reine-Claude Transparente_ (syns. of
        Transparent), 360

  _Reine-Claude Verde Perdrigon_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Reine-Claude Verte_ (syn. of Chambourcy, 174; of Reine Claude, 327)

  _Reine-Claude Verte Impériale_ or _Verte Superieure_ (syns. of
        Imperial Gage), 251

  _Reine-Claude Verte Tiquetée_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Reine-Claude Violette_ (syn. of Blaue Reine Claude, 405; of Purple
        Gage, 318)

  Reine-Claude von Bavays (syn. of Bavay), 155

  Reine-Claude von Boddaert (syn. of Boddaert), 165

  Reine Claude von Bollwiller, 530

  Reine Claude Von Brahy (syn. of Brahy), 408

  Reine-Claude von Jodoigne (syn. of Jodoigne), 472

  Reine-Claude von Oullins (syn. of Oullins), 303

  Reine-Claudia; _Reine-Claudia Blanche La Grosse_ (syns. of Reine
        Claude), 327

  _Reine de Chypre_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  Reine des Mirabelles, 530

  _Reinette Claude d’Althan_ or _Comte d’Althan_ (syns. of Altham), 141

  Reine Victoria, 531

  _Reine Victoria_ (syn. of Victoria), 363

  Reisenzwetsche, 531

  _Reitzensteiner Gelbe Zwetsche_ (syn. of Gelbe Spätzwetsche, 451; of
        Reizenstein Yellow Prune, 531)

  Reizenstein Yellow Prune, 531

  _Reizenstein’s Yellow Prune_ (syn. of Reizenstein Yellow Prune), 531

  Ransleben, M., var. orig. by, 523

  _Rensselaar_, _Rensselaer_ or _Rensselvar Gage_ (syns. of Reine
        Claude), 327

  Reutlinger Frühzwetsche, 531

  _Reutlinger Frühzwetsche_ (syn. of Reutlinger Frühzwetsche), 531

  _Rex_ (syn. of Spanish King), 546

  Rhinebeck Yellow Gage, 531

  Rhodes, 531

  Rhue, 531

  _Rhue’s Seedling_ (syn. of Rhue), 531

  _Rice Seed_ (syn. of Gaviota), 450

  Richard Trotter, 531

  Richland, 531

  Riga 11, 532

  _Riga 115_ (syn. of Aubert), 397

  Rigny, 532

  Rising Sun, 532

  Rivers, Francis, var. orig. by, 403

  Rivers, Thomas, var. orig. by, 149, 153, 185, 200, 233, 241, 286,
        406, 425, 438, 440, 453, 459, 461, 481, 482, 489, 518, 532,
        549, 550

  _Rivers’ Blue Prolific_; _Rivers’ No. 4_ (syns. of Blue Prolific), 406

  Rivers’ Blue Prolific; Rivers’ Early; _Rivers’ Early No. 2_;
        _Rivers’ Early Prolific_ or Early Prolific Plum, Rivers’ Frühe
        Fruchtbare; Rivers Frühpflaume; _Rivers’ No. 2_ (syns. of Early
        Rivers), 200

  Rivers Early, 532

  Rivers Early; _Rivers Early Favorite_; _River’s Early Favourite_;
        _River’s Early No. 1_; _Rivers Frühpflaume_; Rivers Früh
        Pflaume; _River’s No. 1_ Fruhpflaume; _Rivers_’ No. 2 (syns. of
        Early Favorite), 438

  Rivers’ Early Apricot (syn. of Early Transparent Gage), 440

  Rivers’ Early Damson (syn. of Rivers Early), 532

  Rivers’ Early Transparent Gage (syn. of Early Transparent Gage), 440

  River’s Late Prolific (syn. of Late Prolific), 481

  Rivularis (syn. of Towakong), 554

  _Robe de Sargent_ or _Sergent_ (syn. of Agen), 138

  _Robe de Sergeant_ or _Sergent_ (syn. of Sergeant), 339

  Robert, 532

  Robert’s Freestone (syn. of Robert), 532

  _Robinson_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  Robinson, 329

  Roby, H. R., var. orig. by, 532

  Roby Yellow, 532

  Roch-courbon; _Roche-Carbon_; _Roche Corbon_; _Roche Courbon_ (syns.
        of Red Diaper), 323

  Rockford, 532

  Rocky Mountain, 532

  _Rocky Mountain Seedling_ (syn. of Rocky Mountain), 532

  Rodney, 532

  _Rodney Gage_ (syn. of Rodney), 532

  Rodt Blaue Zwetsche, 533

  Rodt Frühe Grosse Pflaumenzwetsche, 533

  _Rodt’s Grosse Frühe Pflaumen-Zwetsche_ (syn. of Kaiser Wilhelm), 474

  Roe, William, var. orig. by, 398

  Roe’s Autumn; _Roe’s Autumn Gage_ (syns. of Autumn Gage), 398

  Rognon D’Ane, 533

  Rognon de Coq, 533

  _Rognon-de-Coq de Nikita_ (syn. of Nikitaer Hahnenpflaume), 504

  _Roi_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  _Roi-Claude_ (syn. of Oullins), 303

  Roi d’Agen (syn. of Agen), 138

  Rollande Galloppi, 533

  Rollingstone, 330

  Rolling Stone (syn. of Rollingstone), 330

  Ronald Fancy, 533

  _Rood_ (syn. of Empire), 203

  Rood, Ezra, var. orig. by, 204

  Ros-Pruim Double, 533

  Ros-pruim Double (syn. of Horse), 464

  Roselle, 533

  _Rosinen Pflaume_ (syn. of Bechstein Spitzpflaume, 400; of Rote
        Zwetsche, 534)

  Ross, 533

  Ross, J. T., var. orig. by, 533

  Ross Seedling (syn. of Ross), 533

  Rossy Frühe Zwetsche, 533

  _Rossy’s Früh Zwetsche_ (syn. of Rossy Frühe Zwetsche), 533

  Rostrave Bell, 533

  Rote Aprikosenpflaume or Aprikosenzwetsche (syns. of Red Apricot),
        321

  _Rote Claude_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  _Rote Cyprische Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  Rote Dattelzwetsche (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Rote Diaprée; Rote Eier Pflaume; _Rote Marunke_; _Rote Masche_;
        _Rote Osterei_; _Rote Ross Pflaume_; _Rothe Diapre_ or
        _Diaprée_; _Rothe Eierpflaume_; _Rothe Marunke_; _Rothe Süsse
        Pflaume_; _Rothe Violen Pflaume_; _Rouge Corbon_ (syns. of Red
        Diaper), 323

  _Rote Eier Pflaume_; Rote Kaiserpflaume; _Rote Kaiser Zwetsche_;
        _Rothe Kaiserpflaume_; _Rothe Kaiserzwetsche_ (syns. of Red
        Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Rote Feigen Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Rote Früh Damascene (syn. of Damas Rouge Hâtif), 427

  _Rote Herbst Zeiberl_ (syn. of Rotes Zeiberl), 533

  Rote Jungfernpflaume (syn. of Red Virginal), 529

  Rote Kirschpflaume (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Rote Mirabelle, 533

  Rote Nectarine (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  Rote Washington (syn. of Brevoort Purple), 408

  _Rote Zipper_; _Rote Zwetsche_ (syns. of Bechstein Spitzpflaume), 400

  Rote Zwetsche, 534

  Roter Perdrigon; Rother Perdrigon (syns. of Red Perdrigon), 528

  _Roter Spilling_ (syn. of Hofinger Mirabelle), 462

  _Rotes Taubenherz_ (syn. of Queen Mother), 522

  Rotes Zeiberl, 533

  _Rothgefleckte Goldpflaume_ (syn. of Belle de Schöeneberg), 401

  _Rothe Aprikosenpflaume_ (syn. of Red Apricot), 321

  _Rothe Frühdamascene_ (syn. of Damas Rouge Hâtif), 427

  Rothe Jungfernpflaume, 534

  _Rothe Königspflaume_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  _Rothe Mirabelle_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Rothe Nectarine (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  _Rothe Nektarine_ (syn. of Peach), 309

  _Rotherham_ (syn. of Winesour), 566

  _Rotgefleckte Gold Pflaume_ (syn. of Belle de Schöeneberg), 401

  _Rouge Corbon_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Rouge de Bleecker_ (syn. of Lombard), 268

  _Rouge de Brevoort_ (syn. of Brevoort Purple), 408

  _Rouge de Denniston_ (syn. of Denniston Red), 431

  _Rouge de Liegel_ (syn. of Royale Hâtive de Liegel), 535

  Rouge Hâtive (syn. of Red Primordian), 528

  Rouge Hâtive de Nitka, 534

  _Rouge tardive de Coe_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Rouge Tardive De Coe_ (syn. of Saint Martin Quetsche), 538

  Roulette, 534

  Round, 534

  Round Black Damson (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Round Damson_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  Round Leaf Wonderful, 534

  Rousse De Guthrie (syn. of Guthrie Russet), 457

  Rowlett (syn. of Roulette), 534

  Rowley, Jos., var. orig. by, 534

  Rowley, 534

  Roxburgh, quoted, 51

  Royal, 534

  _Royal_ (syn. of Climax, 178; of Royal, 534)

  Royal Bullace, 534

  Royal Dauphin (syn. of Royal Dauphin), 534

  Royal Dauphin, 534

  _Royal Dauphine_ (syn. of Sharp, 340; of Victoria, 363)

  Royal de Braunac, 535

  _Royal de Vilvorde_ (syn. of Jodoigne), 472

  _Royale_ (syn. of Mayer Königspflaume, 493; of Royal, 534; of Royal
        Tours, 332)

  Royale Dauphin (syn. of Royal Dauphin), 534

  Royale de Behrens, 535

  _Royale de Behrens_ (syn. of Royale de Behrens), 535

  _Royale de Braunau_ (syn. of Buchner Königspflaume), 410

  _Royale de Haffner_ (syn. of Haffner Königspflaume), 458

  _Royale de Koch_ (syn. of Koch Königspflaume), 477

  _Royale de Lucas_ (syn. of Lucas Königspflaume), 487

  _Royale de Mayer_ (syn. of Mayer Königspflaume), 493

  _Royale de Paris Tardive_ (syn. of Perdrigon Tardif), 515

  Royale de Siebenfreud, 535

  _Royale de Siebenfreund_ (syn. of Royale de Siebenfreud), 535

  _Royale de Tours_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  _Royale de Trapp_ (syn. of Trapps Königspflaume), 555

  _Royale du Dr. Koch_ (syn. of Koch Königspflaume), 477

  _Royale Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Royal), 201

  _Royale Hâtive_ or _Hâtive de Liegel_ (syns. of Royale Hâtive de
        Liegel), 535

  Royale Hâtive de Liegel, 535

  _Royal Hâtive de Nikita_ (syn. of Early Royal of Nikita), 440

  _Royale tres-grosse_ (syn. of Royal), 534

  Royale Violette de Keindl, 535

  _Royale Violette de Keindt_ (syn. of Royale Violette de Keindl), 535

  _Royal Green Gage_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Royal Hâtive (syn. of Early Royal), 201

  _Royale Hâtive de Nikita_ (syn. of Early Royal of Nikita), 440

  Royal of Tours (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  Royal Pea, 535

  _Royal Plumb_; _Royal Red_ (syns. of Royal), 534

  _Royal red Plum_; _Royal Tours_ (syns. of Royal Tours), 332

  Royal Tours, 332

  Royer Aprikosen Pflaume, 535

  Ruben Burgunder Zwetsche, 535

  Ruby, 535

  Rudolph, 536

  _Rudolph’s Pflaume_ (syn. of Prune de Rudolphe), 521

  _Rudolphspflaume_ (syn. of Rudolph), 536

  Rue, 536

  Rue, J. B., var. orig. by, 536

  Ruff Choice, 536

  Ruff Spanish, 536

  Runde Brisette (syn. of Late Mirabelle), 263

  _Runde Rote Damascene_ (syn. of Liegel Rote Damascene), 484

  Runyon, O. R., var. orig. by, 359

  Russian Mirabelle, 536

  Russian No. 2, 536

  Russian No. 3, 536

  _Russian plum 20 M._ (syn. of Burbank), 170

  Rutland Plumcot, 333


  _Sabel Pflaume_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Sada, 536

  Saffold, 536

  Sagetsuma (syn. of Sagetsuna), 536

  Sagetsuna, 536

  St. Anne, 537

  Saint Antoine, 537

  Saint Antonio, 537

  Saint Aubert (syn. of St. Aubert), 537

  St. Aubert, 537

  _Sainte Barnabé_; _St. Barnabée_ (syns. of Early Yellow), 203

  Saint Catherine, 334

  St. Catharine; _Saint Catherine_; _Sainte Catherine_;
        _Sainte-Catherine_; _Sainte-Catherine jaune_, _ordinaire_ or
        _de Tours_; St. Katharine (syns. of Saint Catherine), 334

  _Sainte-Catherine_ (Belgien) (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Saint Clair_; _St. Claire_; _Saint Claire_; _Sainte-Claire_ (syns.
        of Bavay), 155

  _Saint Cloud_ (syn. of Goliath), 231

  _Saint Cyr_ (syn. of Morocco), 288

  St. Etienne, 537

  St. James, 537

  St. James’ Quetsche (syn. of St. James), 537

  _Saint-Jean_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  _Saint Jean_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _St. Jean_ (syn. of Early St. John), 440

  St. John, 537

  _St. Julian_; St. Julien; _Saint Julien_; Saint Julien Petit (syns.
        of Saint Julian), 335

  Saint Julien, 335

  St. Julien group, discussion of, 41, 42

  St. Lawrence, 537

  _Saint Loo_ (syn. of Valence), 557

  Saint Martin, 336

  _Saint_ (or _St._) _Martin_ or _Martin Rouge_ (syns. of Saint
        Martin), 336

  Saint-Martin; Saint Martin’s; _Saint Martin’s Quetsche_ (syns. of
        Saint Martin Quetsche), 538

  Saint Martin Quetsche, 538

  Saint Maurin; _St. Maurin_; _Saint Mauriniana_ (syns. of Agen), 138

  Saint Pierre, 538

  St. Remo, 538

  Sainte Theresa, 537

  Sandall, var. orig. by, 538

  Sandall, 538

  Sandall’s Plum (syn. of Sandall), 538

  Sanders, 538

  Sanderson, 538

  Sandle, 538

  Sandoz, 538

  Sand Plum, 538

  _Sanguine_ (syn. of Satsuma), 337

  _Sankt-Julians Pflaume_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  _Sankt-Michel’s Pflaume_ (syn. of September Damask), 542

  Sannois, 538

  Sannois Quetsche (syn. of Sannois), 538

  _Sans Noyau_ (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  Sans-Noyau (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  Sansoto, 539

  Santa Rosa, 539

  Sapa, 539

  Saratoga, 539

  Sargent, quoted, 97

  Saskatchewan, 539

  Satin, 539

  Satsugon, 539

  Satsuland, 539

  Satsuma, 337

  _Satsuma_ (syn. of Berger), 160

  Satsuma Blood (syn. of Satsuma), 337

  _Sauere Weinpflaume_ (syn. of Winesour), 566

  _Sauere Wein Pflaume Von Yorkshire_ (syn. of Winesour), 566

  Saunders, 339

  _Saunders Seedling_ (syn. of Saunders), 339

  Sauvageon, 539

  _Savoy_ (syn. of Isle-Verte), 470

  Sayer Favorite, 540

  Scaldatello (syn. of Scaudatella), 540

  Scaldatone, 540

  Scanarda, 540

  _Scanarda_ (syn. of Scanarda), 540

  _Scarlet Gage_ (syn. of Long Scarlet), 485

  Scaudatella, 540

  Schamal, 540

  Schamal, M., var. orig. by, 525, 540

  _Schamal_ (syn. of Schamal), 540

  _Schamals Frühzwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Précoce De Schamal), 525

  _Schamals Herbstpflaume_ (syn. of Schamal), 540

  Scheidweiler, M., var. orig. by, 205

  Schenectady, 540

  _Schenectady Catharine_, _Catherine_ or Catherine Plum (syns. of
        Schenectady), 540

  Schieblers Eier Pflaume, 540

  Schiebler Luisante, 540

  Schlachter Früh Zwetsche, 540

  _Schlehen Pflaume_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  Schley, 540

  Schley, Philip, var. orig. by, 425

  _Schley’s Large Red_ (syn. of Schley), 540

  Schmidt Rote Zwetsche, 541

  Schneider, quoted, 44

  Schoenthal, 541

  _Schöne September Königspflaume_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  _Schöne von Lowen_ (syn. of Belle de Louvain), 400

  Schöne von Riom, 541

  _Schöne von Schöneberg_ (syn. of Belle de Schöeneberg), 401

  Schuyler, General, var. orig. by, 541

  Schuyler Gage, 541

  _Schuyler Gage_ (syn. of Schuyler Gage), 541

  _Schuyler_ or _Schuyler’s Gage_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Schwarze Mirabelle_ (syn. of Norbert), 505

  _Schwarze Muskateller Pflaume_ (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  _Schwarze Reine-Claude_ (syn. of Blaue Reine Claude), 405

  _Schwarzer Perdrigon_ (syn. of Normand Perdrigon), 506

  Schweizer Pflaume (syn. of Suisse), 549

  _Schweizer Zwetsche_; _Schweizerzwetsche_ (syns. of Italian Prune),
        253

  _Schweizer Zwetsche_ (incor.) (syn. of Large English), 262

  Scioto, 541

  Scott & Co., var. orig. by, 211

  Scribner, 541

  _Sea_ (syn. of Howell), 465

  Sea-Egg, 541

  Semiana, 541

  Semiana (syn. of Suisse), 549

  _Semiana_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  Semiana of Boston (syn. of Semiana), 541

  _Semi-double flowering Reine Claude_ (syn. of Double Flowering Gage),
        192

  Semina (syn. of Semiana), 541

  _Semis de Bury_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 229

  _Semis de Dorr_ (syn. of Dorr Seedling), 434

  _Semis de Dry_ (syn. of Dry Seedling), 436

  _Semis de Pond_ (syn. of Pond), 314

  Seper, 542

  _Seper’s Peach_ (syn. of Seper), 542

  September, 542

  _September Damascene_ (syn. of Perdrigon Tardif), 515

  _September Damascene_, _Damask_ or _Damson_ (syns. of September
        Damask), 542

  September Damask, 542

  _Serdali Irek_ (syn. of Gelbe Kirschpflaume), 450

  Sergeant, 339

  _Shailer’s White Damson_ (syn. of White Damson), 374

  Shaker, 542

  Sharp, 340

  Sharp; _Sharpe’s Emperor_; _Sharp’s Emperor_; _Sharps Kaiserpflaume_
        (syns. of Sharp), 340

  Sharp; _Sharpe’s Emperor_; _Sharpe’s Emperor_; _Sharp’s
        Kaiserpflaume_ (syns. of Victoria), 363

  Shaw, 542

  Shedd Cluster, 542

  _Sheen_ (syn. of Fotheringham), 212

  Sheldon, 542

  Sheldrake, 340

  Shepherd Bullace, 542

  Shepherd’s White (syn. of Shepherd Bullace), 542

  _Shepler_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  Shepway Bulleis, 542

  Shilling, 543

  Shipper, 341, 543

  _Shipper_ (syn. of Marketman), 491

  _Shipper Pride_; Shipper’s Pride; _Shippers’ Pride_ (syns. of
        Shipper), 341

  Shirata Bene, 543

  Shiro, 342

  _Shiro Smomo_ (syn. of Berger, 160; of Ogon, 298; of Red June, 324)

  Shropshire, 344

  _Shropshire Damson_ (syn. of Shropshire), 344

  Shviata Bene, 543

  Siamese, 543

  Sidone, 543

  Siebenbürger Pflaume, 543

  _Siebenburger Pflaume_ (syn. of Early Yellow), 203

  _Siebenburger Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche de Transylvanie), 523

  _Siebenfreud’s Königspflaume_; Siebenfreund’s Königspflaume (syns. of
        Royale de Siebenfreud), 535

  Sierra, 543

  Sierra Crimson (syn. of Sierra), 543

  Silassy, 543

  Silas Wilson, 543

  _Silberblattrige Zwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche à feuille argentée), 523

  Silva Köning Claudie, 543

  _Silver Prune_ (syn. of Golden Drop), 229

  _Simiana_ (syn. of Semiana, 541; of Suisse, 549)

  Simon, 345

  Simon, Victor, var. orig. by, 551

  _Simon_; _Simon’s Chinese Apricot Plum_; Simon’s Peach; Simon’s Plum
        (syns. of Simon), 346

  Simpson, 346

  Simpson, W. B., var. orig. by, 414.

  _Sinomo_ (syn. of Kelsey), 258

  _Sir Charles Worsley’s_ (syn. of Royal), 534

  Sirocco, 544

  Sisson, 544

  Sixby, 544

  Six Weeks, 544

  _Skorospielka_ (syn. of Early), 437

  Skuya, 544

  Slee-Pruim (syn. of Sloe), 544

  Sloe, 544

  Sloe Plum, 59

  Small, quoted, 80

  Small Black Damask (syn. of Black Damask), 404

  _Small Damas_ (syn. of Black Damask), 404

  Small Green Drying, 544

  _Small Green Gage_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  _Small Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  _Small Queen Claude_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  _Small Red Damask_; Small Red Damson (syns. of Queen Mother), 522

  Small Reine Claude, 347

  _Small Round Damson_ (syn. of Damson, 186; of White Damson, 374)

  _Small White Damask_ (syn. of Small White Damson), 545

  Small White Damson, 544

  Smiley, 545

  Smith, Captain John, quoted, 84, 93

  Smith, var. orig. by, 348

  Smith, 545

  Smith, A. M., var. orig. by, 545

  Smith, C. A., var. orig. by, 545

  Smith, E. F., quoted, 131

  Smith, W. & T. Co., quoted, 118

  Smith October, 545

  Smith Orleans, 348

  Smith Prolific, 545

  _Smith Prune_ (syn. of Diamond), 191

  Smith Red, 545

  _Smith’s Herrn Pflaume_; _Smith’s large Orleans_; _Smith’s Orleans_;
        Smith’s Orleans Pflaume (syns. of Smith Orleans), 348

  Smith’s large October (syn. of Impératrice), 249

  _Smith’s Orleans_ (syn. of Cooper), 423

  Smith’s Prune (syn. of Diamond), 191

  _Smith’s Prune_ (syn. of Kingston), 476

  Smith’s Red (syn. of Smith Red), 545

  Snelling, 545

  Snelling, W. H., var. orig. by, 546

  _Snooks_ (syn. of New Ulm), 293

  Snyder, 546

  Sophie, 349

  Souris, 546

  _Sour Wine Plum of Yorkshire_ (syn. of Winesour), 566

  South Cumberland, 546

  Southern Beauty, 546

  Southern Golden, 546

  _Souvenir de Madame Nicolle_ (syn. of Madame Nicolle), 488

  Spanish (syn. of Spanish King), 546

  Spanish Damascene; _Spanish Damask_; Spanish Red Damask (syns. of
        Spanish Damask), 546

  Spanish Damask, 546

  Spanish King, 546

  _Spanish King_ (syn. of Lombard), 268

  _Späte Dattel Pflaume_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Späte Herrn Pflaume_; _Späte Königs Pflaume_; _Späte Königs Pflaume
        aus Paris_; _Später Perdrigon_ (syns. of Perdrigon Tardif), 515

  _Späte Mirabelle_ (syn. of Late Mirabelle, 263; of Saint Catherine,
        334)

  Späte Muskateller; Späte Muskatellerpflaume (syns. of Late
        Muscatelle), 264

  _Späte Muskateller Pflaume_ (syn. of Tardive Musquée), 551

  _Späte Schwarze Damascene_ (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  Späte von Chalons (syn. of Late Chalons), 480

  Späte Zwetsche Von Karlstadt, 546

  Spath, M., var. orig. by, 395

  Spaulding, 350

  Speckled Gage, 546

  Speer, 547

  _Spelge_ (syn. of Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling), 451

  Spicer, 547

  _Spilge_ (syn. of Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling), 451

  Spilling Jaune-double, 547

  Spilling Jaune-simple (syn. of White Wheat), 565

  _Spindel Pflaume_ (syn. of Gemeiner Gelbe Spilling), 451

  _Spitszwetsche_ (syn. of Quetsche Pointue), 524

  _Spitzige Rote Pflaume_; _Spitz Pflaume_ (syns. of Rote Zwetsche), 534

  _Spitzige Rote Pflaume_ (syn. of Bechstein Spitzpflaume), 400

  _Spitz Pflaume_ (syn. of Bechstein Spitzpflaume), 400

  Spitzzwetsche (syn. of Quetsche Pointue), 524

  Splendid, 547

  Splendor, 547

  Spotted Gage, 547

  Springer, 547

  Stabeler Seedling, 547

  _Stambul Erik oder Irek_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  Standard, 548

  _Standard of England_ (syn. of Standard), 548

  Stanton, 352

  Stanton’s Seedling (syn. of Stanton), 352

  Stark Brothers, quoted, 116, 213

  Stark Green Gage, 548

  Starnes, H. N., quoted, 131, 376

  Steer’s Emperor; _Steers’ Emperor_ (syns. of Goliath), 231

  Steinlose Zwetsche (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  Steinman, 548

  Steinman, C., var. orig. by, 548

  Stella, 548

  _Stengel Pflaume_ (syn. of Werder’sche Frühzwetsche), 563

  Stephens, John D., var. orig. by, 533

  Steptoe, 548

  Sterling, 548

  Stickney, 548

  Stint, 548

  Stintpflaume (syn. of Stint), 548

  Stocks, varieties of, 114-120

  Stoddard, 352

  Stoddart (syn. of Stoddard), 352

  Stoneless, 353

  _Stoneless_ (syn. of Stoneless), 353

  Stonewood, 549

  Stout, var. orig. by, 549

  Stout, 549

  Strachey, quoted, 84

  Strawberry, 549

  _Strawberry_ (syn. of Berger), 160

  Striped-leaved, 549

  Strong, William, var. orig. by, 512

  Stumpe (syn. of Howe), 464

  Stumpe, Mrs., var. orig. by, 465

  _Stumpy_ (syn. of Howe), 464

  Sucker State, 549

  _Sucree de Trauttenberg_, or Sucree-Douce De Trauttenberg (syns. of
        Trauttenberg), 555

  _Sucrin Vert_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Sugar, 354

  Sugar Prune (syn. of Sugar), 354

  _Suisina Grossella Piccola_ (syn. of Musk Damson), 501

  Suisse, 549

  Sultan, 549

  _Sultan_ (syn. of Occident), 295

  Sultaneck Erick, 549

  _Sultaneck Erik_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Summer Damson_ (syn. of Damas d’Ete), 426

  Sunrise, 549, 550

  Sunset, 550

  Superbe de Denniston (syn. of Denniston Superb), 431

  Superbe de Huling (syn. of Hulings), 245

  _Superior Gage_; _Superiour_ or _Superior Green Gage_ (syns. of
        Imperial Gage), 251

  _Superior Gage_; _Superior Green Gage_ (syns. of Washington), 368

  Supreme (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Surpasse Monsieur, 550

  Surprise, 355

  Susina Di Santa Caterina (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  _Susina Massina Piccola_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  Susina Regina (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Susina Settembrica Quialla_ (syn. of Reizenstein Yellow Prune), 531

  Susina Torla d’Nova di Borgogna (incor.) (syn. of Burgundy Prune), 412

  Susina or Susino Vecchietti (syns. of Catelano Violaceo), 416

  _Susina Verdachia Longa_ (syn. of Grüne Dattel Zwetsche), 456

  Susino Catalano (syn. of Catalano), 415

  Susino Damaschino Settembrino (syn. of Damaschino Settembrino), 426

  Susino Scaudatella (syn. of Scaudatella), 540

  _Suwanee_ (syn. of Wild Goose), 378

  Svedske Tidlig Leipziger, 550

  Svedske Ungersk, 550

  Swan, 550

  Swan (syn. of Swan Golden), 550

  Swan Golden, 550

  Swan’s Yellow (syn. of Swan Golden), 550

  _Sweet Botan_ (syn. of Abundance, 136; of Berckmans, 159)

  Sweet Damson, 550

  _Sweet Damson_ (syn. of Fürst Damson, 448; of Horse, 464)

  _Sweet Prune_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  Swift, 550

  _Swiss_ or _Switzer’s Plum_ (syns. of Suisse), 549

  _Swiss Prune_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  _Syrische Pflaume_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  Szillassy Piros, 550


  Tabor, G. L., var. orig. by, 207

  Tante Anne (syn. of Aunt Ann), 397

  _Tardif_ or _Tardive de Chalons_ (syns. of Late Chalons), 480

  _Tardive de Chambourcy_ (syn. of Chambourcy), 174

  Tardive de Corny, 551

  Tardive de Fourqueux, 551

  Tardive de Genes, 551

  _Tardive de Rivers_ (syn. of Late Rivers), 481

  Tardive Musquée, 551

  Tarleton, 551

  Tatge, 551

  Tawny, 551

  Taybank, 551

  _Tchernaya Arabskaya_ (syn. of Black Arabka), 404

  _Tchernaya vengerskaya_ (syn. of Black Prune), 404

  Tecumseh, 552

  Temperature, phases of, 102

  Temple, 552

  Tenant or Tennant Prune (syns. of Tennant), 357

  Tennant, 357

  Tennant, Rev. John, var. orig. by, 357

  Tenneha, 552

  Tennessee, 552

  Tennessee Plum (syn. of Tennessee), 552

  Terrell, 552

  Terry, 552

  Terry, H. A., life of, 242;
    var. orig. by, 193, 238, 242, 280, 391, 393, 402, 406, 408, 410,
        415, 416, 419, 421, 422, 424, 425, 429, 431, 432, 434, 435,
        441, 443, 444, 447, 448, 451, 453, 462, 469, 471, 472, 473,
        483, 484, 485, 486, 490, 491, 492, 494, 503, 509, 513, 518,
        519, 522, 529, 536, 542, 543, 552, 558, 559, 561, 562, 564,
        566, 568

  Terry De Soto, 552

  Terry’s Desota (syn. of Terry De Soto), 552

  _Teutsche blaue Zwetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  Texas Belle, 552

  Texas Gauge, 552

  Thanksgiving, 553

  Thanksgiving Prune (syn. of Thanksgiving), 553

  _The Beauty_ (syn. of Corymbus), 423

  The Coe’s Plum (syn. of Golden Drop), 229

  The Cook’s Choice (syn. of Cook Choice), 422

  _The Czar_ (syn. of Czar), 184

  The Dosch (syn. of Dosch), 435

  The Gem (syn. of Gem), 451

  _The Great Damask Plum_ (syn. of Lange Violette Damascene), 479

  The Green Damosine Plum (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  The Impératrice Plum (syn. of Impératrice), 249

  The Imperial Plum (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  The Myrobalane Plum (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  The Nectarine Plum (syn. of Nectarine), 291

  _The New Apricot Plum_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  The Purple Myrobalan (syn. of Pissardi), 516

  The St. Julian Plum (syn. of Saint Julien), 335

  The Washington Plum (syn. of Washington), 368

  The White Impératrice Plum (syn. of White Impératrice), 375

  Theresa, 553

  Thomas, 553

  Thomas October, 553

  Thomaspflaume (syn. of Thomas), 553

  Thompson’s Golden Green, 553

  Thorndyke Gage, 553

  Thousand-And-One, 553

  Thresher, 553

  Throop, 553

  Throop, Calvin, var. orig. by, 548

  Throop No. 1, 554

  Throop No. 2, 554

  Throssel, 554

  Tillemond, 554

  Tinsley, J. H., var. orig. by, 383

  _Tobe’s Gage_ (syn. of Deaton), 429

  Tobias Gage, 554

  _Togari_ (syn. of Kelsey), 258

  Togo, 554

  Tokeya, 554

  Tomato, 554

  Tomlingson, 554

  Tomlinson’s Charlotte (syn. of Charlotte), 417

  Topaz (syn. of Guthrie Topaz), 457

  _Topaze de Guthrie_ (syn. of Guthrie Topaz), 457

  _Torlo d’Ovo_ or _d’Uovo_ (syns. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Towakong, 554

  _Townsend_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  Trabesche, 555

  Trabeshe (syn. of Trabesche), 555

  Tragedy, 358

  Traer (syn. of De Soto), 189

  Tradescant, John, var. orig. by, 326

  Tragedy Prune (syn. of Tragedy), 358

  Transparent, 360

  _Transparent_ (syn. of Macedonia, 488; of Yellow Transparent, 570)

  Transparente, 555

  _Transparent Gage_, Gage Plum or Green Gage (syns. of Transparent),
        360

  _Transparent Yellow_ (syn. of Yellow Transparent), 570

  Trapps Königspflaume, 555

  Traubenpflaume, 555

  Trauttenberg, 555

  _Trauttenbergs Aprikosenpflaume_ (syn. of Abricotée de Trauttenberg),
        391

  _Trauttenberg Zuckersüsse_ (syn. of Trauttenberg), 555

  Trayer (syn. of De Soto), 189

  Trianon, 555

  Trinkle, John W., var. orig. by, 555

  Trinkle No. 4, 555

  _Triomphe Garcon_ or _Valet_; _Trompe Garcon_ or _Valet_;
        _Tromp-Valet_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  Trostle, 555

  Trotter, Lillian A., var. orig. by, 443

  Trotter, Richard, var. orig. by, 473, 484, 511

  _Trouvée de Vaunêge_ or Vonêche (syns. of Trouvée de Voueche), 555

  Trouvée de Voueche, 555

  _True Large German Prune_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  _True Sweet Botan_ (syn. of Berckmans), 159

  Truro, 556

  Tucker, 556

  Tucker, Ezra W., var. orig. by, 556

  Tudor, 556

  Tupper, var. orig. by, 190

  Turkey, 556

  Turkey Plumb (syn. of Turkey), 556

  Turkie (syn. of Turkey), 556

  _Türkische Gelbe Pflaume_ (syn. of Imperial Ottoman), 467

  _Türkische Kirsche_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Türkische Zwetsche_ (syn. of Hungarian, 246; of Red Date, 322)

  _Turkish Prune_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  Turkish Prune, 556

  _Turkish Quetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  Turky (syn. of Turkey), 556

  Turner, Stephen H., var. orig. by, 552

  Twice Bearing, 556

  Twins, 557

  Tzaueron, 557


  _Uchi Bene_; _Uchi-Beni_ (syns. of Berger), 160

  _Uchi Beni_ (syn. of Chabot), 172

  Ulysses, 557

  Uncle Ben, 557

  Ungarische (syn. of Ungarish), 361

  _Ungarische Blaue Eier_ (syn. of Kaiser Wilhelm), 474

  Ungarische Dattelzwetsche (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  Ungarische Dattel Zwetsche, 557

  _Ungarische Pflaume_, _Sabel Pflaume_ or _Zwetsche_ (syns. of
        Hungarian), 246

  _Ungarische Späte Bouteillen Zwetsche_ (syn. of Ungarische Dattel
        Zwetsche), 557

  _Ungarische Zwetsche_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Ungarish, 361

  Ungarish Prune (syn. of Ungarish), 361

  Union, 557

  _Union Purple_ (syn. of Union), 557

  _United States_ (syn. of U. S.), 557

  _Ura-Beni_ (syn. of Berger), 160

  Uryany, 557

  U. S., 557

  _Usum Erreck_ (syn. of Traubenpflaume), 555

  Utah, 362

  Utah Hybrid (syn. of Utah), 362

  _Uwase_ (syn. of Shviata Bene), 543


  _Vail’s Seedling_ (syn. of Large Golden Prolific), 479

  Vakanzpflaume (syn. of September Damask), 542

  Valence, 557

  Valentia, 558

  Valienciennes, 558

  Value, 558

  Van Benschoten, 558

  Van Buren, 558

  Van Deman, 558

  Van Dieman (syn. of Van Deman), 558

  Van Houten, 558

  Van Mons, var. orig. by, 158

  _Van Mons Königspflaume_ (syn. of Belle), 158

  Van Mons’ Red; _Van Mons Red Gage_ (syns. of Belle), 158

  Variegated Plum (syn. of Lombard), 268

  _Veilchen Pflaume_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  Venetianische Zweimal Tragende, 558

  Venus, 558

  _Verdacchia rotonda_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  Verdacchio, 588

  Verdache, 558

  _Verdacia_ (syn. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Verdage D’Italie_ (syn. of Quetsche Verte D’Italie), 525

  _Verdoch_; _Verdochia_; _Verdochio_; _Verducia_ (syns. of Reine
        Claude), 327

  Verdock (syn. of Verdacchio), 558

  _Veritable Imperatrice_ (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  Vermilion, 558

  Vermilon Hâtif, 559

  _Vertage d’Italie tres-grosse_ (syn. of Quetsche Verte D’Italie), 525

  _Vert_ or _Verte Bonne_; _Verte d’Espagne_; _Verte Tiquetée_ (syns.
        of Reine Claude), 327

  Verte à Secher de Knight (syn. of Large Green Drying), 479

  _Verte Tardive de Guthrie_ (syn. of Guthrie Late), 236

  Vesuvius, 559

  Vick, 559

  Victoire de Nelson (syn. of Nelson), 503

  Victor, 559

  Victoria, 362, 559

  _Victoria_ (syn. of Sharp, 340; of Victoria, 363)

  Victoria-Pflaume; _Victoria’s Kaiserzwetsche_ (syns. of Victoria), 363

  Victor Sand Cherry, 559

  _Vilmot’s Green Gage_, _Late Green Gage_ (syns. of Reine Claude), 327

  _Vineuse acidule_ (syn. of Winesour), 566

  _Vinisour_ (syn. of Winesour), 566

  _Violet_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Violet, 559

  Violet Damask (syn. of Damas Violet), 427

  _Violet de Tours_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Violet Diaper, 365

  _Violet Diaper_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  _Violet Empress_ (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  _Violet Gage_ (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  Violet Imperial, 559

  _Violet Perdrigon_ (syn. of Blue Perdrigon, 164; of Cooper, 423; of
        Smith Orleans, 348)

  Violet Plumb (syn. of Violet), 559

  _Violet Queen Claude_ (syn. of Purple Gage), 318

  Violet Royal, 559

  _Violette Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Violette_ (syn. of Imperatrice), 249

  Violette (syn. of Violet), 559

  Violette Americaine, 559

  _Violette Dattelzwetsche_ (syn. of Agen, 138; of Hungarian, 246)

  _Violette de Galopin_ (syn. of Galopin), 449

  _Violette de Jerusalem_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Violette de Tours_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  Violette Diaprée (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  _Violette d’Octobre_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Violette Fasanenpflaume_, _Fasanen Pflaume_, _Huhnerpflaume_,
        _Huhner Pflaume_, or _Rebhuhn Pflaume_; _Violetter Perdrigon_;
        _Violettes Rebhühnerei_ (syns. of Blue Perdrigon), 164

  Violette Galopin (syn. of Galopin), 449

  _Violette Hâtive_ (syn. of Early Tours), 202

  _Violette Jerusalem_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Violette Jerusalemspflaume_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Violette Kaiserin_ (syn. of Dunkelblaue Kaiserin, 437; of
        Impératrice, 249)

  _Violette Kaiser Pflaume_ (syn. of Blue Egg), 405

  Violette Königspflaume (syn. of Early Royal), 201

  _Violette October Pflaume_ (syn. of Saint Martin Quetsche), 538

  _Violette Octoverpflaume_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Violette oder Blaue Kaiserpflaume_ (syn. of Red Magnum Bonum), 326

  _Violette Oktoberpflaume_ (syn. of Saint Martin), 336

  _Violette Queen Claude_; Violette Reine-Claude (syns. of Purple
        Gage), 318

  Violette Reine-Claude Von Brignais (syn. of Reine Claude de
        Brignais), 529

  _Violetter Perdrigon_ (syn. of Smith Orleans), 348

  _Violette Violen Pflaume_ (syn. of Violet Diaper), 365

  Virgata, 559

  Virgie, 560

  _Virgin_ (syn. of Red Virginal, 529; of White Virginal, 565)

  _Virginal à Fruit Blanc_ or _Rouge_, _à gros Fruit blanc_, Blanc;
        _Virginale_; _Virginale à Fruit Rouge_; _Virginale Blanc_ or
        _Rouge_ (syns. of Red Virginal), 529

  _Virginal à gros fruit blanc_; _Virginal blanc_; Virginale;
        _Virginale à Fruit Blanc_, _à gros fruit blanc_, Virginale
        blanche (syns. of White Virginal), 565

  _Virginale_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Virginale_ (syn. of Red Virginal), 529

  _Virginale Blanche_ (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  Virginia Damson, 560

  _Virginian Cherry_ (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  _Virginische Ludwig’s Pflaume_ (syn. of Hungarian), 246

  _Virginische Pflaume_ (syn. of Red Diaper), 323

  _Von Flotows Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle de Flotow), 497

  Von Berlepsch Zwetsche, 560

  Von Bose Rote Zwetsche, 560

  Von Lade Späte Mirabelle, 560

  Von Hartwiss’ Gelbe Zwetsche (syn. of Hartwiss), 459

  Von Moro Reine Claude, 460

  _Von Trapp’s Königs Pflaume_ (syn. of Trapps Königspflaume), 555

  Von Trauttenberg’s Aprikosenpflaume (syn. of Abricotée de
        Trauttenberg), 391

  Von Trauttenberg’s Zuckersüsse (syn. of Trauttenberg), 555

  _Von Wangenheim Pflaume_ (syn. of Wangenheim), 368

  Voronesh, 365

  Voronesh Blue (syn. of Blue Moldavka), 405

  Voronesh Yellow (syn. of Voronesh), 365

  Voslauer Zwetsche, 560

  Vulcan, 560


  Wabash, 560

  Wady, 560

  _Wady’s Early_ (syn. of Wady), 560

  Wager (syn. of Orange), 300

  Wagner, 560

  Wagner, J. F., var. orig. by, 411, 462, 560

  Wagner No. 9 (syn. of Wagner), 560

  _Wahre Aprikosen Pflaume_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Wahre blaue Eierpflaume_ (syn. of Jerusalem), 472

  _Wahre Caledonian_ (syn. of Goliath), 231

  Wahre Frühzwetsche, 560

  _Wahre Königspflaume_ (syn. of Royal), 534

  _Wahre Schlehen Damascene_ (syn. of Damson), 186

  Wahre Weisse Diaprée, 561

  _Wahre Zwetsche_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  Wakapa, 561

  Walker Seedling, 561

  Wallace, 561

  Wales, 366

  Walker, A. W., var. orig. by, 561

  Walter, 561

  Walter, Herr, var. orig. by, 561

  Walther Pflaume, 561

  Wangenheim, 367

  _Wangenheim Hâtive_, _Wangenheims Frühzwetsche_ (syns. of
        Wangenheim), 368

  Wangenheims Früh Zwetsche (syn. of Wangenheim), 368

  _Waran Erik_ (syn. of Noire de Montreuil), 504

  Ward October Red, 561

  Warner, 561

  Warner’s Late or Late Red (syns. of Warner), 561

  Warren, 561

  _Warren_ (syn. of Newman), 292

  Washington, 368

  _Washington_; _Washington Bolmar_, _Gage_, _Jaune_, _Mammot_, or
        _Yellow_ (syns. of Washington), 368

  Washington or _Washington Purple_ (syns. of Brevoort Purple), 408

  Washington Seedling (syn. of Ives), 470

  _Wasse-Botankio_ (syn. of Lutts), 487

  _Wasse Botankyo_ (syn. of Sagetsuna), 536

  _Wasse Sumomo_ (syn. of Earliest of All), 198

  _Wassu_ (syn. of Burbank), 170

  Wastesa, 561

  Waterloo Pflaume, 561

  _Waterloo_ (syn. of Golden Drop, 229; of Kent, 476; of Reine Claude,
        327)

  _Waterloo of Kent_ (syn. of Kent), 476

  Watson, 562

  Watson, D. H., var. orig. by, 463, 505, 518, 525, 562, 569

  Watts, 562

  Watts, Dr. D. S., var. orig. by, 562

  Waugh, 562

  Waugh, Frank A., life of, 85-86;
    quoted, 65, 66, 86, 87, 99, 141, 393

  Wax, 562

  _Wax Plum_ (syn. of Wax), 562

  Wayland, 370

  Wayland, Dr., var. orig. by, 288

  Wayland, Prof. H. B., var. orig. by, 371

  Wazata, 562

  Weaver, 372

  Weaver, var. orig. by, 372, 476

  Webster, J. B., var. orig. by, 416

  _Webster Gage_; Webster’s Gage (syns. of Webster Gage), 562

  Webster Gage, 562

  Weedsport German Prune, 220

  Weeping Blood, 562

  _Weichharige Schlehen Damascene_ (syn. of Saint Julien), 335

  Weinsauerliche Pflaume or Zwetsche (syns. of Winesour), 566

  _Weisse Aprikosen Pflaume_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Weisse Diaprée_ (syn. of White Perdrigon), 375

  _Weisse Hollandische Pflaume_; _Weisse Kaiserin_ or _Magnum Bonum_;
        _Weisser Kaiser_ (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Weisse Indische Pflaume_ (syn. of Grüne Dattel Zwetsche), 456

  _Weisse Jungfernpflaume_ (syn. of White Virginal), 565

  Weisse Kaiserpflaume (syn. of White Imperatrice), 375

  _Weisse Kaiser Pflaume_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Weisse Kaiserin, 563

  _Weisse Kaiserin_ (syn. of Weisse Kaiserin), 563

  _Weisse Königin_ (syn. of White Queen), 564

  Weisser Perdrigon; _Weisses Rebhuhnerei_ (syn. of White Perdrigon),
        375

  _Weisse Zeiberl_ (syn. of Weisses oder Grünes Zeiberl), 562

  Weisses oder Grünes Zeiberl, 562

  _Weisse Violen Pflaume_ (syn. of Jaspisartige Pflaume), 471

  Welch, 562

  Welcome, 562

  _Wentworth_; Wentworth Plumb (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Werder’sche Frühzwetsche, 563

  Wetherell, 563

  Wetherill’s Sweet, 563

  _Wetschen_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  Whatisit, 563

  Wheat, 563

  _Wheaten_; _Wheaton_; Wheat Plum (syns. of Wheat), 563

  Whitacre (syn. of Whitaker), 563

  Whitaker, 563

  Whitby, 563

  White Apricot or Apricot Plum (syns. of Apricot), 148

  _White Bonum Magnum_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _White Blossomed Sloe_ (syn. of Sloe), 544

  White Bullace, 373

  White Bulleis (syn. of White Bullace), 373

  White Corn, 564

  _White Damascene_ or _Damson_; White Damask (syns. of White Damson),
        374

  White Damask (syn. of Large White Damson, 480; of Small White Damson,
        545)

  White Damson, 374

  White Date or Date Plum (syn. of Date), 428

  White Diaper, 564

  White Diapred (syn. of Diaprée Blanche), 432

  _White Egg_ or _Egg Plum_, _Holland_, _Imperial_ or Imperial Bonum
        Magnum, Magnum Bonum, _Mogul_ (syns. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _White Empress_ (syn. of White Imperatrice), 375

  _White-fleshed Botan_ (syn. of Berckmans), 159

  _White Gage_ (syn. of Small Reine Claude), 347

  _White Gage_ (syn. of Yellow Gage), 388

  _White Gage_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  _White Gage of Boston_ (syn. of Imperial Gage), 251

  White Honey Damson, 564

  White Imperatrice, 375

  _White Imperatrice_ (syn. of White Imperatrice), 375

  _White Indian_ (syn. of Green Indian), 455

  _White Kelsey_ (syn. of Georgeson), 218

  _White Matchless_ (syn. of Matchless), 492

  _White Mirabelle_ or Mirable (syns. of Mirabelle), 284

  White Mirobalane (syn. of Myrobalan), 290

  White Muscle, 564

  _White Mussell_ (syn. of White Muscle), 564

  White Mussell (syn. of Muscle), 501

  White Nicholas (syn. of Nicholas), 295

  White Otschakoff, 564

  White Pear, 564

  White Peascod, 564

  White Perdrigon, 375

  _White Perdrigon_ (syn. of White Perdrigon), 375

  White Pescod (syn. of White Peascod), 564

  White Prune, 564

  _White Prune Damson_ (syn. of White Damson), 374

  White Prunella (syn. of Sloe), 544

  White Queen, 564

  White Sweet Damson, 564

  White Virginal, 565

  _White Virginale_ (syn. of Red Virginal, 529; of White Virginal, 565)

  White Wheat, 565

  White Wheate (syn. of White Wheat), 565

  _White Winter Damson_ (syn. of White Damson), 374

  Whitley, 565

  _Whitlow_; _Whitton_ (syns. of Wheat), 563

  Whyte, 565

  Whyte, R. B., var. orig. by, 565

  Whyte’s Red Seedling (syn. of Whyte), 565

  Wickson, 376

  Wickson, E. J., quoted, 75, 76, 548

  _Wickson Challenge_ (syn. of Formosa), 447

  _Wiener Mirabelle_ (syn. of Mirabelle), 284

  Wier, 565

  Wier, D. B., var. orig. by, 466, 468, 469, 565

  Wier Large Red (syn. of Wier), 565

  Wier No. 50, 565

  Wier’s No. 50 (syn. of Wier No. 50), 565

  Wier’s Large Red (syn. of Wier), 565

  Wiezerka (syn. of Wyzerka), 568

  Wilder, 565

  Wilde, 565

  Wild Goose, 378

  Wild Goose Improved, 566

  Wildrose, 566

  Wilkinson, 566

  Willamette (syn. of Pacific), 305

  Willamette, 566

  Willamette Prune (syn. of Pacific), 305

  Willard, 379

  Willard, Samuel D., life of, 149;
    quoted, 208;
    var. orig. by, 214

  Willard Japan; _Willard Plum_ (syns. of Willard), 379

  _William Dodd_ (syn. of Miner), 281

  Williams, 566

  Williams, Theodore, var. orig. by, 392, 397, 402, 407, 409, 412, 413,
        436, 441, 442, 444, 447, 448, 454, 475, 478, 481, 482, 483,
        498, 499, 509, 513, 514, 520, 527, 529, 548, 557, 558, 559,
        563, 568, 569

  Williamson, H. M., quoted, 305

  Wilmeth Late, 566

  _Wilmot’s Early Orleans_, _Large Orleans_, _Late Orleans_, _New Early
        Orleans_ or _Orleans_ (syns. of Early Orleans), 199

  _Wilmot’s Green Gage_, _Late Green Gage_ or _New Green Gage_ (syns.
        of Reine Claude), 327

  _Wilmot’s Late Orleans_ (syn. of Goliath), 231

  _Wilmot’s Russian_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Wilson, 566

  Wine Plum, 566

  _Winesour_ (syn. of Winesour), 566

  Winesour, 566

  _Winesour Plum_ (syn. of Winesour), 566

  Winnebago, 566

  Winslow, Edward, quoted, 93

  Winsor, E. W., var. orig. by, 393, 402

  Winter Creke, 567

  Winter Damson, 567

  _Winter Damson_ (syn. of Winter Damson), 567

  Wiseman, 567

  Wiseman’s Prune (syn. of Wiseman), 567

  _W. J. Bryan_ (syn. of Bryan), 410

  Wohanka, 567

  Wolf, 380

  Wolf, D. B., var. orig. by, 380

  Wolf and Japan, 567

  Wolf Cling (syn. of Wolf Clingstone), 567

  Wolf Clingstone, 567

  _Wolf Free_ or _Freestone_ (syns. of Wolf), 380

  _Wonder_ (syn. of Osage), 510

  Wood, 381

  Wood, Joseph, var. orig. by, 382

  Woolston, 567

  _Woolston Black_; Woolston Black Gage; _Woolston’s Black Gage_;
        Woolston’s Violette Reine-Claude (syns. of Woolston), 567

  Woolston Gage (syn. of Woolston), 567

  Wooster, 567

  Wooten, 568

  Wootton (syn. of Wooten), 568

  World Beater, 383

  Worth, 568

  _Worth_ (syn. of Royal Tours), 332

  Wragg, 568

  Wragg, John, var. orig. by, 477

  Wragg Freestone, 568

  Wunder von New York, 568

  Wyandotte, 568

  Wyant, 384

  Wyant, J. B., var. orig. by, 384

  Wyant and Japan, 568

  Wyckoff, 568

  Wyedale, 568

  Wyzerka, 568


  Yates, 569

  _Yeddo_ (syn. of Georgeson), 218

  Yellow Americana, 569

  _Yellow Apricot_ (syn. of Apricot), 148

  _Yellow Aubert_ (syn. of Aubert), 397

  _Yellow Bonum Magnum_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  _Yellow Damask_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 195

  _Yellow Damson_ (syn. of White Damson), 374

  Yellow Date (syn. of Date), 428

  Yellow Diaprée (syn. of Diaprée Blanche), 432

  Yellow Egg, 385, 569

  _Yellow Egg_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Yellow Egg group, 32;
    origin of, 32;
    specific characters of, 32

  _Yellow Fleshed Botan_ (syn. of Abundance), 136

  Yellow Gage, 388

  _Yellow Gage_ (syn. of Drap d’Or, 195; of Small Reine Claude, 347)

  Yellow Impératrice, 569

  _Yellow Impératrice_ (syn. of Yellow Impératrice), 569

  Yellow Imperial, 569

  Yellow Jack, 569

  _Yellow Japan_ (syn. of Abundance, 136; of Chabot, 172)

  Yellow Jerusalem, 569

  Yellow Magnum Bonum, 570

  _Yellow Magnum Bonum_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Yellow Moldavka (syn. of Voronesh), 365

  Yellow Nagate, 570

  _Yellow Nagate_ (syn. of Ogon), 298

  Yellow Oregon, 570

  Yellow Panhandle, 570

  _Yellow Perdrigon_ (syn. of Drap d’Or), 195

  Yellow Plum, 59

  Yellow Roman Bullace, 570

  _Yellow St. Catharine_ (syn. of Saint Catherine), 334

  Yellow Sweet, 570

  Yellow Transparent, 570

  Yellow Voronesh (syn. of Voronesh), 365

  Yellow Wildgoose, 570

  Yellow Yosemite, 570

  Yellow, 43 Fischer, 569

  Yohe, 571

  Yohes Eagle (syn. of Yohe), 571

  _Yonemomo_; _Yonesmomo_ (syns. of Satsuma), 337

  _Yorkshire Winesour_ (syn. Winesour), 566

  York State Prune, 571

  _York State Prune_ (syn. of York State Prune), 571

  _Yosebe_ (syn. of Earliest of All), 198

  Yosemite (syn. of Purple Yosemite, 521; of Yellow Yosemite, 570)

  Yosemite Purple (syn. of Purple Yosemite), 521

  Yosemite Yellow (syn. of Yellow Yosemite), 570

  Yosete (syn. of Earliest of All), 198

  _Yosobe_ (syn. of Earliest of All), 198

  Young, 571

  Youngken Golden; _Younken’s Golden Cherry_; Yunkin Golden (syns. of
        Golden Cherry), 228

  _Young’s Seedling_ (syn. of Young), 571

  _Young’s Superior Egg_ (syn. of Yellow Egg), 386

  Yukon, 571

  Yuteca, 571


  Zahlbruckner Damascene, 571

  _Zahlbruckner’s Violette Damascene_ (syn. of Zahlbruckner Damascene),
        571

  Zekanta, 571

  _Zipperle_ or _Zipperlein_ (syns. of Damson), 186

  Zuccherino (syn. of Damaschino Estivo), 426

  Zucchetta Gialla, 571

  _Zucker Zwetsche_ (syn. of Red Date), 322

  Zulu, 571

  Zuzac, 571

  _Zweimal Blühende und Zweimal Tragende Bunte Pflaume_ (syn. of Twice
        Bearing), 556

  Zweimal Tragende (syn. of Twice Bearing), 556

  Zwergpflaume, 571

  _Zwespe_ (syn. of German Prune), 220

  _Zwetsche_, _Zwetschen_ or _Zwetschke_ (syns. of German Prune), 220

  _Zwetsche Frühe Von Buhlerthal_ (syn. of Quetsche Précoce de
        Buhlerthal), 524

  _Zwetsche Leipziger_ (syn. of Merunka), 494

  Zwetsche Professor Wittmack, 572

  _Zwetsche Ungarische_ (syn. of Ungarish), 361

  _Zwetsche von Dätlikon_ (syn. of Italian Prune), 253

  Zwetsche Von der Worms, 572

  Zwetsche Von Létricourt (syn. of Quetsche Dr. Létricourt), 524




FOOTNOTES


[1] Bailey, L. H. _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:43. 1892.

[2] Heideman, C. W. H. _Minn. Hort. Soc. Rpt._ 187. 1895.

[3] Waugh, F. A. _Vt. Sta. Bul._ 53. 1896.

[4] Bechstein _Forstbot._ Ed. 5. 424. 1843.

[5] Schneider, C. K. _Hand. Laub._ 631. 1906.

[6] Bailey, L. H. _Cyc. Am. Hort._ 1447. 1901; Hudson _Fl. Anglic._ 212.
1778.

[7] Heer _Pflanz. Pfahlb._ 27, fig. 16.

[8] Bostock and Riley _Nat. Hist. of Pliny._ =3=:294. 1892.

[9] Koch, K. _Dend._ =1=:94, 96. 1869. Ledebour. _Fl. Ross._ =2=:5. 1829.
Boissier. _Fl. Orient._ =2=:652.

[10] Koch, K. _Deut. Obst._ 146. 1876.

[11] Kalm, Peter _Travels into North America_ =3=:240. 1771.

[12] _Watson’s Annals of Philadelphia_ =1=:17. 1844.

[13] _Mass. Hist. Soc. Collections_, 1st Ser. =1=:118.

[14] Josselyn, John, Gent. _New England Rarities_ London. 1672.

[15] Samuel Deane, D.D. _The New England Farmer or Georgical Dictionary_
265. 1797.

[16] Beverly, Robert _History of Virginia_ 279. 1722. Reprint 1855.

[17] Lawson, John _History of North Carolina_ 110. 1714.

[18] Ramsey’s _History of South Carolina_ =2=:128, 129, Ed. 1858.

[19] Forbes, James Grant _Sketches of the Floridas_ 87, 91, 170. 1821.

[20] In 1763 Dr. Andrew Turnbull established a colony of fifteen hundred
Greeks and Minorcans at New Smyrna, Florida, for the cultivation of sugar
and indigo. But they cultivated other plants as well, among the fruits
grown there being the grape, peach, plum, fig, pomegranate, olive and
orange. Forbes, James Grant _Sketches of the Floridas_ 91. 1821.

[21] Bartram, William _Travels Through North and South Carolina, Georgia,
East and West Florida, etc._ Dublin: 1793.

[22] Prince, William _Treatise of Horticulture_ 24. 1828.

[23] _Ibid._ p. 28.

[24] Prince, William _Treatise of Horticulture_ 23. 1828.

[25] The frontispiece of _The Plums of New York_, showing a likeness of
William Robert Prince, dedicates the book to this distinguished American
pomologist. It is appropriate that the following biographical sketch of
Mr. Prince, written for _The Grapes of New York_, should be reprinted
here. “William Robert Prince, fourth proprietor of the Prince Nursery and
Linnaean Botanic Garden, Flushing, Long Island, was born in 1795 and died
in 1869. Prince was without question the most capable horticulturist of
his time and an economic botanist of note. His love of horticulture and
botany was a heritage from at least three paternal ancestors, all noted
in these branches of science, and all of whom he apparently surpassed
in mental capacity, intellectual training and energy. He was a prolific
writer, being the author of three horticultural works which will always
take high rank among those of Prince’s time. These were: _A Treatise
on the Vine_, _Pomological Manual_, in two volumes, and the _Manual of
Roses_, beside which he was a lifelong contributor to the horticultural
press. All of Prince’s writings are characterized by a clear, vigorous
style and by accuracy in statement. His works are almost wholly lacking
the ornate and pretentious furbelows of most of his contemporaries
though it must be confessed that he fell into the then common fault of
following European writers somewhat slavishly. During the lifetime of
William R. Prince, and that of his father, William Prince, who died in
1842, the Prince Nursery at Flushing was the center of the horticultural
nursery interests of the country; it was the clearing-house for foreign
and American horticultural plants, for new varieties and for information
regarding plants of all kinds.”

[26] Manning, Robert _Hist. Mass. Hort. Soc._ 33. 1880.

[27] Coxe, William _A View of the Cultivation of Fruit Trees_ 6. 1817.

[28] Landreth’s _Rural Register and Almanac_. 1872 and 1874.

[29] _Bulletin of the Essex Institute_ =2=:23.

[30] Downing, A. J. _Hovey’s Mag._ =3=:5. 1837.

[31] _Boston Palladium_, Sept. 9, 1822.

[32] The horticultural books published in America between 1779 and
1825 were: _The Gardener’s Kalender_ by Mrs. Martha Logan, Charleston:
1779; _The American Gardener_ by John Gardiner and David Hepburn,
Washington: 1804; _The American Gardener’s Calendar_ by Bernard McMahon,
Philadelphia: 1806; _A View of the Cultivation of Fruit Trees_ by William
Cox, Philadelphia: 1817; _The American Practical Gardener_ by an Old
Gardener, Baltimore: 1819; _The Gentleman’s and Gardener’s Kalendar_ by
Grant Thorburn, New York: 1821; _American Gardener_ by William Cobbett,
New York: 1819; and _The American Orchardist_ by James Thacher, M. D.,
Boston: 1822.

[33] During the quarter ending in 1825 two agricultural publications were
in existence in the United States: _The American Farmer_, established
in Baltimore in 1819, and the _New England Farmer_, founded in Boston
in 1822. To these should be added the _Massachusetts Agricultural
Repository_, not a journal in the strict sense of the word but published
by the Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture, established in
1793, and continued until the _New England Farmer_ was started in 1822.
The Repository was the first agricultural periodical of the New World.

[34] At least three agricultural societies were founded soon after
the close of the Revolution; the Philadelphia Society for Promoting
Agriculture and the Agricultural Society of South Carolina were founded
in 1785, and the Massachusetts Society for Promoting Agriculture in
1792, while the first strictly horticultural society, the New York
Horticultural Society, was not established until 1818.

[35] _P. domestica cereola_ L. (_Sp. Pl._ 475. 1753), _P. claudiana_
Poir. (_Lam. Encycl._ =5=:677. 1804), _P. italica_ Borkh. (_Handb.
Forstb._ =11=:1409. 1803).

[36] For a bibliography of this group see an article by Waugh in _Gard.
Chron._ =24=:465. 1898.

[37] Koch, K. _Deut. Obst._ 149. 1876.

[38] Schneider, C. K. _Hand. der Laub._ 630. 1906.

[39] Columella =10=: lines 404-406.

[40] _The Natural History of Pliny._ Translated by John Bostock and H. T.
Riley =3=:294. London: 1892.

[41] Hogg, Robert _The Fruit Manual_ Ed. =5=:704. 1884.

[42] Targioni-Tozzetti, Antonio, _Cenni storici sulla introduzione di
varie piante nell’ agricoltura ed horticultura Toscana_. Florence: 1850.

[43] Parkinson, John _Paradisus Terrestris_ 576. 1629.

[44] Rea, John _A Complete Florilege_ 208. 1676.

[45] Ray _Historia Plantarum_ =2=:1529. 1688.

[46] Gallesio, Giorgio =2=: (Pages not numbered). 1839.

[47] Phillips, Henry _Comp. Orch._ 306. 1831.

[48] These are the plums which Linnaeus called _Prunus domestica
galatensis_ (_Sp. Pl._ 475. 1753); Seringe, _Prunus domestica
pruneayliana_ (_DC. Prodr._ =2=:533. 1825); and Borkhausen, _Prunus
œconomica_ (_Handb. Forstb._ =2=:1401. 1803).

[49] Prince, William _A Short Treatise on Horticulture_ 27. 1828.

[50] “Of the prune, or, as they are termed in German, ‘Quetsche,’ there
are a number of varieties, all which are of fine size, and considered as
the best plums for drying as prunes; this is one of the largest of the
varieties; the principal characteristic of these plums is that the flesh
is sweet and agreeable when dried. I am informed that the ‘Italian Prune’
ranks highest as a table fruit when plucked from the tree. The process
of drying prunes seems to be so very easy that I should suppose it might
be undertaken in this country with a certainty of success, and so as to
totally supersede the importation of that article.” _Ibid._

[51] _United States Patent Office Report_: xxix. 1854. The following
description of this distribution is of interest: “The scions of two
varieties of prunes, ‘Prunier d’Agen,’ and ‘Prunier Sainte Catherine,’
have been imported from France, and distributed principally in the states
north of Pennsylvania, and certain districts bordering on the range of
the Allegany Mountains, in order to be engrafted upon the common plum.
These regions were made choice of in consequence of their being freer
from the ravages of the curculio, which is so destructive to the plum
tree in other parts as often to cut off the entire crop. It has been
estimated that the State of Maine, alone, where this insect is rarely
seen, is capable of raising dried prunes sufficient to supply the wants
of the whole Union.”

[52] Wickson, E. J. _California Fruits_ Ed. =2=:82. 1891.

[53] Hedrick, U. P. in Bailey’s _Cyclopedia American Horticulture_ 1440.
1901.

[54] Miller says in his _Gardener’s Dictionary_ of the variety Perdrigon,
“Hakluyt in 1582, says, of later time the plum called the Perdigwena was
procured out of Italy, with two kinds more, by the Lord Cromwell, after
his travel.” Miller, Philip _Gardener’s Dictionary_. Edited by Thomas
Martyn, =2=: (no page). 1707.

[55] In the first edition of _Species Plantarum_ Linnaeus called these
plums _Prunus domestica pernicona_; in the second edition the varietal
name was changed to “Pertizone.” In the Prodromus Seringe designates the
group as _Prunus domestica touronensis_.

[56] The _Prunus domestica aubertiana_ of Seringe. (_DC. Prodr._ =2=:533.
1825.)

[57] Rea, John _A Complete Florilege_ 209. 1676.

[58] Parkinson, John _Paradisus Terrestris_ 576. 1629.

[59] Koch, K. _Deut. Obst._ 560. 1876.

[60] Bauhin _Pin._ 443 _n_ 23.

[61] _Bul. Soc. Dauph._ fasc. VIII. 1881.

[62] _Ibid._

[63] _Dendrol._ 316. 1893.

[64] _Rhein. Reise-Fl._ 67. 1857.

[65] _Handb. Laubh._ =1=: 631. 1906.

[66] Pickering, Charles _Chron. Hist. Plants_. 218. 1879.

[67] Heer _Pflanz. Pfahl._ 27, fig. 16c.

[68] Hooker _Fl. Brit. Ind._ =2=: 315. 1879.

[69] The reader who desires fuller information regarding the botany of
this species should consult the references given with the botanical
description of _Prunus insititia_.

[70] McMahon, Bernard _Gardener’s Calendar_ 587. 1806.

[71] Samuel Deane, D.D. _New England Farmer_ 265. 1797.

[72] Koch, Karl _Deut. Obst._ 150. 1876.

[73] This subject is well discussed in an article by E. A. Carrière in
_Revue Horticole_ 438. 1892.

[74] _Handb. Laubh._ 628. 1906.

[75] _Fl. Siles._ =1=:2, 10. 1829.

[76] _Fl. Nied. Ostr._ 819. 1890.

[77] _Fl. Siles._ =1=:2, 10. 1829.

[78] _Enum. Pl. Trans._ 178. 1866.

[79] _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:630. 1906.

[80] _Flora_ =9=:748. 1826.

[81] _Sched. Crit._ 217. 1822.

[82] _Boiss. Diag._ 2nd Ser. 96. 1856.

[83] _Verh. Zool. Bot. Ges. Wien._ 435. 1864.

[84] _Flor. Or._ =11=:625. 1872.

[85] In pre-Linnaean literature _Prunus cerasifera_ is mentioned by
Clusius as _Prunus myrobalanus_ (_Rar. Plant. Hist._ 46 fig. 1601), and
by Tournefort under the same name (_Inst. Rei Herb._ 622. 1700).

[86] Ledebour _Ind. Hort. Dorp._ Suppl. 6. 1824.

[87] Schneider _Handb. Laubh._ 632. 1906.

[88] Dippel _Handb. Laubh._ =3=:633. 1893.

[89] Jack _Gar. and For._ =5=:64. 1892.

[90] Bailey _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =38=:34. 1892.

[91] _Handb. Laubh._ =1=:633. 1906.

[92] _Beitr. Nat._ =6=:90. 1791.

[93] _Handb. Forstb._ =11=:1392. 1803.

[94] _Fedde Repert._ =1=:50. 1905.

[95] _Pl. David_ =2=:33. 1888.

[96] _Ill. Bot. His. Mountains and Fl. of Cash._ =1=:239. 1839.

[97] Several apricots and the loquat of southern Japan are also called
Japanese plums. The name Triflora for common usage avoids this confusion
and conforms with the growing usage in horticulture of using the specific
name alone.

[98] Bailey says, (_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:6. 1894) speaking of these
specimens: “I have no hesitation in saying that our Japanese plums are
the same.” The writer examined the specimens in the summer of 1909 and
recognized them at once to be the same as the cultivated Triflora plums.

[99] February 23, 1909.

[100] pp. 10, 45.

[101] March 12, 1909.

[102] _Fl. Indica_ 501. 1824.

[103] Forbes and Hemsley _Jour. Linn. Soc._ =23=:219. 1886-88.

[104] _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:3. 1894.

[105] Berckmans, L. A. _Rpt. Ga. Hort. Soc._ 15. 1889.

[106] Bailey, L. H. _Cornell Sta. Buls._ =62=, =106=, =139=, =175=.

[107] Waugh, F. A. _Plum Cult._ 1901.

[108] Georgeson, C. C. _Amer. Gard._ =12=:74. 1891.

[109] For references and synonymy see the Simon plum.

[110] Carrière, E. A. _Rev. Hort._ 152. 1891.

[111] The New York Agricultural Experiment Station stands on the site
of the old Indian village of Kanadasaga, founded by the Seneca Indians.
The records of Sullivan’s raid just after the Revolution show that when
this village was destroyed by the Whites there were orchards of apples
and plums (see Conover’s _Kanadasaga and Geneva_ (Mss.) Hobart College)
crudely cultivated. On the adjoining farm of Mr. Henry Loomis descendants
of these old trees still grow. The plums are Americanas, and Mr. Loomis,
now in his 94th year, says that when a boy the Indians and Whites alike
gathered them, soaked them in lye to remove the astringency of the skins
and then cooked, dried or otherwise preserved them.

[112] Poiteau =1=: (Unpaged). 1846.

[113] Waugh, F. A. _Plum Cult._ 51, 282-307. 1901.

[114] Goff, E. S. _Wis. Sta. Bul._ =63=:4. 1897.

[115] The _Prunus mollis_ of Torrey (_Fl. U. S._ =1=:470. 1824) was
_Prunus nigra_, as Torrey’s specimen, now in the herbarium of Columbia
University, plainly shows.

[116] A brief account of the life of Liberty Hyde Bailey appeared in _The
Grapes of New York_ (page 142), but his work with plums deserves further
mention. The foundation of our present knowledge of the cultivated
species and races of American and Triflora plums was laid by the
comprehensive study of these fruits made by Bailey in the closing decade
of the Nineteenth Century. His examination of plums may be said to have
begun in 1886 with the setting of an orchard of native plums—probably
the first general collection of these plums planted—on the grounds of
the Michigan Agricultural College, Lansing, Michigan. The results of
his studies have largely appeared in the publications of the Cornell
Agricultural Experiment Station, the first of which was _The Cultivated
Native Plums and Cherries_ published in 1892; _The Japanese Plums_,
1894; _Revised Opinions of the Japanese Plums_, 1896; _Third Report upon
Japanese Plums_, 1897; _Notes upon Plums_, 1897. Beside these bulletins
a monograph of the native plums was published in _The Evolution of our
Native Fruits_ in 1898 and a brief but complete monograph of the Genus
Prunus in the _Cyclopedia of American Horticulture_ in 1901. These are
but the chief titles under which his studies of plums have appeared,
several minor contributions having been printed from time to time in
the horticultural press. While Dr. Bailey has given especial attention
to all fruits grown in eastern America, it is probable that pomology is
most indebted to him for his long and painstaking work with the difficult
Genus Prunus with which he has done much to set the varieties and species
in order.

[117] _Bot. Gaz._ =24=:462. 1896; _Cornell Sta. Bul._ 170. 1897; _Ev.
Nat. Fruits_ 194-208. 1898.

[118] _Gar. and For._ =10=:340, 350. 1897. _Plum Cult._ 60-66. 1901.

[119] Waugh, F. A. _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =14=:277. 1900-01.

[120] Hakluyt _Voyages_ =3=:258.

[121] _Torrey Bot. Club Bul._ =21=:301. 1894.

[122] _Silva of North America_ =4=:28. 1893.

[123] Jack, J. G. _Gard. and For._ =7=:206. 1894.

[124] _Gar. and For._ =3=:625. 1890.

[125] Sandberg, J. H. _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._ =3=:221. 1895.

[126] Coville, F. V. _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._ =5=:99. 1897; and Chestnut,
V. K. _Cont. U. S. Nat. Herb._ =7=:356. 1902.

[127] Wickson, E. J. _California Fruits_ 52. 1891.

[128] Wickson, E. J. _Calif. Fruits_ Ed. =4=:35. 1909.

[129] _Pittonia_ =3=:21. 1896.

[130] The first published account of this plum is a brief non-technical
description of it by Dr. Kellogg in _Hutching’s Mag._ =5=:7. 1859.

[131] _Torrey Bot. Club Bul._ =25=:149. 1898.

[132] The writer has examined the type specimen of Michaux’s _Prunus
chicasa_ in the herbarium of the _Jardin des Plants_ in Paris and
found it, though incomplete and poorly preserved, plainly not _Prunus
angustifolia_ but more likely some form of _Prunus umbellata_.
Undoubtedly, however, the references which follow Michaux’s are to
_Prunus angustifolia_.

[133] “The Chicasaw plumb I think must be excepted, for though certainly
a native of America, yet I never saw it wild in the forest, but always in
old deserted Indian plantations: I suppose it to have been brought from
the S. W. beyond the Mississippi, by the Chicasaws.” Bartram _Travels
Through North and South Carolina, Georgia, East and West Florida, etc._
38. 1793.

[134] Bailey _Ev. Nat. Fr._ 193. 1898.

[135] “The wild Plums of America are of several sorts. Those which I can
give an account of from my own Knowledge, I will, and leave the others
till a farther Discovery. The most frequent is that which we call the
common _Indian_ Plum, of which there are two sorts, if not more. One of
these is ripe much sooner than the other, and differs in the bark; one
of the barks being very scaly, like our _American_ Birch. These Trees,
when in Blossom, smell as sweet as any Jessamine, and look as white as a
Sheet, being something prickly. You may make it grow to what Shape you
please; they are very ornamental about a House, and make a wonderful fine
Shew at a Distance, in the Spring, because of their white Livery. Their
Fruit is red, and very palatable to the sick. They are of a quick Growth,
and will bear from the Stone in five years, on their Stock.” Lawson, John
_History of Carolina_ 105. 1714.

[136] “The third was known among the later colonists as the Indian cherry
and was the product of a tree hardly exceeded by the English peach tree
in girth and height, and showing an inclination for the soil of the
valleys of the rivers, and of the narrow bottoms of the smaller streams.
This variety was considered to be of extraordinary excellence in flavor;
when ripe it was colored a dark purple, and there was only a single
cherry to the stalk. There were two varieties of plums, resembling, both
in size and taste, the English Damson.” Bruce, Philip Alexander _Economic
History of Virginia in the Seventeenth Century_ =1=:94. 1896.

[137] Frank A. Waugh was born in Sheboygan Falls, Wisconsin, July 8,
1869. On his father’s side he is of Scotch descent, though the family
has long been in America; his mother came from Germany. He was educated
in the public schools of Kansas and in the Kansas State Agricultural
College, graduating from the latter place in 1891. In 1893 he became
professor of horticulture in the Oklahoma Agricultural College and
horticulturist at the Experiment Station, a place which he held for
nearly three years, going late in 1895 to take the same position in the
University of Vermont. After eight years of arduous service in Vermont,
during which time he became well known by his writings on horticultural,
botanical and agricultural subjects, he left Vermont to take charge of
horticulture in the Massachusetts Agricultural College and the Hatch
Experiment Station. Professor Waugh’s study of plums began in the West,
Kansas and Oklahoma, but his reports in regard to this fruit have come
from Vermont where his work has been mainly done. The chief titles under
which his studies have been published in the bulletins and annual reports
of the Vermont Station are: _The Pollination of Plums_, _Classification
of Plums_, _A Monograph of the Wayland Group of Plums_, _Hybrid Plums_,
_Types of European Plums_, _Propagation of Plums_, _The Myrobalan Plums_,
_A Review of the Americana Plums_ and _The Grouping of Japanese-Hybrid
Plums_. In 1901 he published _Plums and Plum Culture_, a popular
presentation of the various phases of his botanical and horticultural
work with this fruit. The titles given do not represent the extent of
his studies with this fruit for there were third and fourth reports upon
several of the subjects mentioned. In particular he has been helpful
to American pomology in the classification of native plums, in his
study of sex in plums and in setting forth the hardiness of the various
species and groups. Besides his papers on plums, Professor Waugh’s
chief contributions to horticulture have been a book entitled _Fruit
Harvesting, Storing, Marketing_, another under the title _Systematic
Pomology_ and two works on apples. He has also published two books on
Landscape Gardening which have given him high standing in this division
of horticulture. Professor Waugh will long be remembered in horticulture
for the great extent of his work, for his versatility in the profession
and for his ability to present well to both readers and hearers, either
technically or popularly, horticultural knowledge.

[138] “The Sand Plums” _Country Gentleman_, Jan. 27, 1898.

[139] Thomas Volney Munson, after whom it has been a pleasure to name
this species, though best known as a viticulturist, has also rendered
invaluable service to plum-culture. A sketch of his life appeared in
_The Grapes of New York_ (page 122) in which his services to viticulture
were briefly mentioned. While his name is not commonly connected with
the study of plums, it is not too much to say that without his aid the
publications of those who have written during the last quarter century on
native plums would have lacked much of the information they contain in
regard to the species of the Southwest. He has an intimate knowledge of
the wild plums of Texas and has freely given of it to all who have asked,
often supplementing information with herbarium specimens or plants. The
authors of _The Plums of New York_ wish to give him credit for much of
the information, furnished directly or indirectly, in regard to the wild
and cultivated plums of the region in which he lives, in recognition of
which his name is given to one of the most important species of native
plums. Mr. Munson has grown and introduced a number of hybrid plums of
note, chief of those of his own growing being Nimon, Minco and Burford.
Many of his experiments in hybridizing plums, though unproductive of new
varieties, are of much value as a guide to other workers with this fruit.

[140] Lawson, John _History of Carolina_ 105. 1714.

[141] Waugh _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =12=:235. 1899. Bailey _Cyc. Am. Hort._
1449. 1901.

[142] _Cont. Bot. Lab. University of Pa._ =2=:216. 1899-1900.

[143] DeVries, Hugo _Species and Varieties, etc._ 57. 1905.

[144] The references given contain these quotations.

[145] Waugh, F. A. _Vt. Sta. An. Rpt._ =11=:273. 1897-98.

[146] Hedrick. U. P; _The Relation of Weather to the Setting of Fruit_.
Bul. 299. 1908.

[147] Waugh, F. A. _Vt. Sta. Bul._ =53=:51. 1896.

[148] Goff, E. S. _Wis. Sta. An. Rpt._ =18=:302. 1901.

[149] Waugh, F. A. _Plum Cult._ 297-300. 1901.

[150] Hansen, N. E. _S. D. Sta. Bul._ =93=:67. 1905.

[151] Carrière, E. A. Prunier Saint Julien. _Revue Horticole_ 438-439.
1892.

[152] Waugh _Plum Cult._ 247. 1901.

[153] Hansen, N. E. _S. D. Sta. Bul._ 87. 1904. _Ibid._ =93=:68. 1905.

[154] Wickson, E. J. _California Fruits_ 348. 1891.

[155] A prune is a dried plum. The requisite for a prune-making plum
is that it have a large proportion of solids, particularly sugar.
Comparatively few varieties of plums bear sufficient amounts of solids so
that they may be successfully cured into a firm, long-keeping product.
Only varieties of the Domesticas are used in making prunes, though
possibly some of the Insititias might be so used. Prunes are chiefly
used in cookery though some of the finer grades from France are sold as
confections.

Prunes are either dried in the sun as in California; partially cooked
in ovens and the curing completed indoors, as in European countries; or
wholly dried in evaporators, as in the Pacific Northwest. Sun-drying is
the most economical method where the climate permits. The half cooking
does not make so attractive a product but when skillfully done the prunes
are possibly more palatable, as the cooked flavor is liked by consumers.
Beyond question the best prunes are made, however, all things considered,
in well-managed evaporators. In evaporators the changes of curing take
place most perfectly and uniformly so that, as a rule, the prune looks
better, keeps longer, is not so tough and has a more natural taste of the
green fruit.

In prune-making the fruit is allowed to remain on the trees until ripe
enough to fall to the ground, as the maximum proportion of solids is thus
obtained. After picking, the plums are passed over graders to remove
rubbish and to secure uniformity in size, this being essential to obtain
evenness in curing, since the small fruits dry more rapidly than large
ones. Usually before evaporation begins the fruit is dipped in boiling
lye or pricked by needles in a pricking machine to make tender the tough
skin and so allow the moisture to escape more readily. The dipping
consists of immersing the fruit for a minute or less in a solution of
lye in the proportion of 1 pound of concentrated lye to from 10 to 50
gallons of water maintained at the boiling point. The fruit is carried
mechanically through the lye vat and a rinser by a modified endless
chain, or it may be dipped in wire baskets. After rinsing the plums are
ready for curing.

Exposure to the sun in curing varies from five to twelve days, depending
upon the heat of the sun and the size and the variety of the plum. Curing
in evaporators varies with the fruit and with the make of the machine.
In general the temperature in the evaporator is from 120° to 140° at the
start, increasing to from 160° to 180° and decreasing when the prunes
are taken out. Too much heat at first causes the cells of the fruit to
burst, thereby producing drip and discoloration. Important factors in
evaporating in machines are the circulation of air, convenience, cost of
fuel and power. The time required for curing ranges from twelve hours for
a small plum to forty-eight hours for a large, juicy one. If not cured
enough fermentation and molding result; if cured too much the weight is
lessened, the quality is injured, the prune is harsh and coarse and has a
dried up appearance.

When sufficiently dried the prunes are put in bins or piles to sweat,
a process taking from one to three weeks, after which they are graded,
processed and packed. In grading, the prunes are separated into sizes
indicating the number of prunes required to make a pound, as 30’s to
40’s, 40’s to 50’s and so on to the smallest size, 120’s to 130’s. The
processing is done by dipping the prunes in boiling water and glycerine
or by steaming or by using some special preparation in the final dipping
or by rattling in a revolving cylinder. Processing is reputable if it
adds beauty to the color, or kills insects’ eggs or sterilizes the
prunes. It is disreputable when the aim is to add to the weight. The best
prunes are packed in boxes, in which process lining with paper, filling
facing, pressing and labeling are important details. A well cured prune
is soft and spongy, the pit is loose but does not rattle, the skin is
bright, the product is free from drippings or exudation, the flesh is
meaty, elastic, and of a bright, lively color.

The custom has been to bleach light colored prunes with sulphur fumes.
This process injures the quality and possibly makes the product somewhat
poisonous. Sulphuring is now regulated by the Federal Pure Food Law.

If poorly managed or if the plums are not of the best, several
difficulties are encountered in curing prunes. Thus, a syrupy liquid
sometimes oozes from the prunes, besmearing and making unattractive the
final product. Again, the finished prunes may be covered with globules of
sugar, rendering them sticky and destroying the lustre. Fruit grown on
poor soils, on unhealthy trees or picked green may cure into small prunes
of an abnormal shape called “Frogs” or they may ferment and swell up in
large soft prunes called “Bloaters.”

The plum chiefly used in California in making prunes is the Agen, usually
called Petite, a prune curing into a bright amber-colored product.
This plum is easily cured, and the prune from it needs little sugar in
cooking. In the states north of California the Italian Prune is the
favorite, producing a dark red, almost black product, more tart but
on the whole rather better flavored than the prune from the preceding
variety. Other varieties more or less used are Golden Drop, the product
from which is known as the Silver Prune; Reine Claude, which makes a
fancy product often used as a confection; Yellow Egg, which sells as the
Silver Prune when evaporated; the German Prune, making a product much
like the Italian Prune; “Hungarian Prune,” from a very large plum and
making a fancy product but very difficult to cure; the Tragedy Prune, an
early plum of the Italian type; Golden Prune, much like the Silver and
possibly better; and the Champion, Willamette, Pacific, Tennant, Steptoe
and Dosch, all of the Italian type.

[156] Farlow, W. G. The Black Knot, _Bulletin Bussey Institution_
440-453. 1876. Halsted, B. D. Destroy the Black Knot, etc. _N. J. Sta.
Bul._ =78=:1-14. 1891.

[157] Smith, E. F. Peach Rot and Peach Blight _Journ. Myc._ =5=:123-134.
1889. Quaintance, A. L. The Brown Rot, etc. _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =50=:237-269,
figs. 1-9. 1900.

[158] Atkinson, G. F. Leaf Curl and Plum Pockets _Cornell Sta. Bul._
=73=:319-355, Pls. 1-20. 1894.

[159] Ibid.

[160] Sturgis, W. C. A Leaf Curl of the Plum _Conn. Sta. Rpt._ =19=:183,
Pl. 2. 1895.

[161] Arthur, J. C. Plum Leaf Fungus _N. Y. Sta. An. Rpt._ =5=:276-281,
Pls. 6-10. 1887.

[162] Duggar, B. M. _Fungous Diseases of Plants_ 314, figs. 147, 148.
1909. Pierce, N. B. A Disease of Almond Trees _Jour. Myc._ =7=:66-67,
Pls. 11-14. 1892.

[163] Scribner, F. L. Leaf Rust of the Cherry, etc. _U. S. Dept. Agr.
Rpt._ 353-355. Pl. 3. 1887. Hedrick, U. P. Prune Rust _Oreg. Sta. Bul._
=45=:67. 1897.

[164] Stewart, F. C. _N. Y. Sta. Bul._ =191=:323-324. 1900. Rolfs, F. M.
Die Back of Peach Trees _Science_ =26=:87. 1907.

[165] Duggar, B. M. _Fungous Diseases of Plants_ 226. 1909.

[166] Smith, E. F. and Townsend, C. O. A Plant Tumor of Bacterial Origin
_Science_ =25=:671-673. 1907. Toumey, J. W. Cause and Nature of Crown
Gall _Ariz. Sta. Bul._ =33=:1-64, figs. 1-31. 1900. Hedgcock, G. C. Crown
Gall, etc. _U. S. Dept. Agr. Bur. Pl. Ind. Bul._ =90=:15-17, Pls. 3-5.
1906.

[167] Smith, E. F. _Science_ =17=:456-7. 1903. Ibid. =21=:502. 1905.
Clinton, G. P. Report of Botanist _Conn. Sta. Rpt._ 273. 1905.

[168] Hedrick, U. P. Gumming of the Prune Tree _Oreg. Sta. Bul._
=45=:68-72. 1897.

[169] Stewart, F. C. _N. Y. Sta. Bul._ _191_:324-326. 1900.

[170] Pammel, L. H. New Fungous Diseases of Iowa _Jour. Myc._ =7=:99-100.
1892.

[171] Jones, L. R. Studies upon Plum Blight _Vt. Ex. Sta. Rpt._
=15=:231-239. 1902.

[172] Smith, E. F. The Peach Rosette _Jour. Myc._ =6=:144. 1891.

[173] Waugh, F. A. _Plum Cult._ 329. 1901.

[174] Ibid.

[175] Starnes, H. N. Japan and Hybrid Plums _Ga. Sta. Bul._ =68=:22-24.
1905.

[176] Hedrick, U. P. Curl-leaf of the Italian Prune _Oreg. Sta. Bul._
=45=:72-74. 1897.

[177] Smith, E. F. Field Notes _Jour. Myc._ =6=:108. 1891.

[178] Riley, C. V. _An. Rpt. State Entomol. Mo._ =1=:50-56. 1869;
=3=:11-29. 1871.

[179] Ibid. =3=:39-42. 1871.

[180] Beutenmüller, W. _Sesiidae of America, etc._ 266-271. 1901.

[181] Ibid. 291-292. 1901.

[182] Riley, C. V. _An. Rpt. State Entomol. Mo._ =1=:46-47. 1869.

[183] Lowe, V. H. _N. Y. Sta. Bul._ =180=:122-128. 1900.

[184] Wilson, H. F. The Peach-tree Barkbeetle _U. S. D. A. Bur. Ent.
Bul._ =68=:91-108. 1909.

[185] Hunter, W. D. The Aphididæ of N. A. _Ia. Sta. Bul._ =60=:103. 1901.

[186] Ibid. 107, 108.

[187] Ibid. 108, 109.

[188] Gillette, C. P. A Few Orchard Plant Lice _Col. Sta. Bul._ =133=:41.
1908.

[189] Ibid. 39.

[190] Marlatt, C. L. The San Jose or Chinese Scale _U. S. D. A. Bur. Ent.
Bul._ =62=:1-89. 1906.

[191] Lowe, V. H. The New York Plum Lecanium _N. Y. Sta. Bul._ =136=:583.
1897.

[192] For references to these scales see Fernald, Mrs. M. E. Coccidae of
the World _Mass. Sta. Bul._ =88=:1-360. 1903.

[193] Lowe, V. H. The Apple-tree Tent Caterpillar _N. Y. Sta. Bul._
=152=:279-293. 1898.

[194] Riley, C. V. _An. Rpt. State Entom. Mo._ =2=:94-103. 1870.

[195] Ibid. =7=:83-90. 1875.

[196] Saunders, W. _Insects Injurious to Fruits_ 95, 96. 1883.

[197] Riley, C. V. and Marlatt, C. L. The Clover Mite _Insect Life_
=3=:45-53. 1890.

[198] Saunders, W. _Insects Injurious to Fruits_ 159. 1883.

[199] Ibid. 150-153. 1883.

[200] Lowe, V. H. The Pistol Case-bearer _N. Y. Sta. Bul._ =122=:221-232.
1897.

[201] Riley, C. V. _Insect Life_ =1=:133. 1889.

[202] _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =62=:27. 1894.

[203] _Tex. Sta. Bul._ =32=:488. 1894.

[204] Professor Joseph Lancaster Budd was a native of New York, having
been born July 3, 1835, at Peekskill, Westchester County. On his father’s
side he was of French ancestry, but his mother was of English descent, a
member of the Lancaster family, early settlers on the Hudson River. He
was educated in the public schools of Monticello, Monticello Academy and
at Hiram College, though he did not finish at the last named institution
because of financial distress at home. In 1857 the young man moved west
and for a year taught in an academy at Rockford, Illinois, and in the
Wheaton schools of the same state. In 1858 he moved to Benton County,
Iowa, where he established the Benton County Orchards and Nurseries. He
soon became identified with horticulture in Iowa, especially through its
State Horticultural Society, an organization of which he was secretary
from 1873 to 1885 and from 1892 to 1895, serving in all seventeen years.
In 1876 he was elected to the chair of Horticulture and Forestry in the
Iowa Agricultural College, a position which he held until 1899, when he
retired as professor emeritus, having spent twenty-two years in pioneer
work in this college. In 1882 Professor Budd visited Russia to study the
hardy plants of that country and imported from there many varieties of
fruit, as well as other plants, which he thought suited to the climate
of the Northwest. After his return his work was largely given up to
originating and testing varieties which he thought would prove of value
to the States of the Plains. He was preeminent in America for his work
with Russian fruits and was one of the first to see the possibilities
of our native plums. The frequency with which his name is mentioned
in this book as a breeder of hardy fruits indicates his interest in
securing plums adapted to the region in which he lived. The horticultural
library of Charles Downing, by the wish of the owner, was given to the
Iowa Agricultural College with the expectation that Professor Budd
would revise Downing’s famous _Fruits and Trees of America_. Ill health
prevented the accomplishment of this task, although as senior author
he published, in 1902, the _American Horticultural Manual_ in two
volumes. During the greater part of his active life he was a constant
correspondent of the horticultural press. Professor Budd was a teacher as
well as a pomologist and did much for American pomology in imparting to
the men who came in contact with him both knowledge and enthusiasm. He
died in Phoenix, Arizona, December 26, 1904.

[205] Samuel D. Willard was born August 24, 1835, near Cayuga, New
York. He was educated in the district school, Canandaigua Academy, and
Temple Hall, Geneseo, having been graduated at the last named place
in 1854. After a successful business career of a decade and a half
following his schooling, Mr. Willard engaged in the nursery business
in Geneva, New York. He prospered in tree-growing and soon embarked in
fruit-growing as well, rapidly attaining distinction as a nurseryman and
as a fruit-grower. He early began to specialize in plum culture and soon
became one of the leading growers of plums, one of the chief authorities
on varieties, and one of the largest importers of new sorts. In 1897,
with Dr. L. H. Bailey as co-author, Mr. Willard prepared Bulletin 131,
_Notes upon Plums_, of the Cornell University Agricultural Experiment
Station. In this bulletin Mr. Willard put on record the results of
his long experience in growing plums and gave descriptions of seventy
varieties, nineteen of which he had imported from Europe. Besides
this bulletin he has published but little on plums, but his spoken
words regarding them may be found in nearly every report of the two
horticultural societies of New York since 1880, as they are also to be
found in the reports of horticultural societies in neighboring states and
the provinces of Canada. Besides his work in horticultural societies,
Mr. Willard was one of the earliest and foremost institute speakers in
New York. He was, too, for many years active in the development of the
state fair in New York, having charge of the horticultural department,
a position which he also held at the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo
in 1901. For nearly a half-century Mr. Willard has been prominent in
his profession in the state and nation; he is known by all eastern
fruit-growers and his vigorous and enthusiastic utterances in the press,
from the platform and in conversation have made him a favorite authority
with the fruit-growers of this generation.

[206] Prosper Julius A. Berckmans was one of the noted horticulturists
and pomologists of the generation just passing. He was born at Aerschat,
near Antwerp, Belgium, October 13, 1830, his father being Dr. Louis
Edouard Berckmans, author of the splendid pomological work, _Album
de Pomologie_, and as noted in Europe as was the son in America, in
horticulture and pomology. The younger Berckmans was educated in Tours,
Belgium and Paris, attaining distinction as a student in botany. In
1850 father and son came to America and the following year settled
at Plainfield, New Jersey. Six years later the son moved to Augusta,
Georgia, and established near that place a horticultural plantation,
which he called “Fruitlands,” the nursery of which has become famous
throughout the world. Soon after locating in Georgia, Mr. Berckmans
became interested in horticultural organizations and later his activities
were extended to the promotion of horticulture in the Nation. In 1859
he became a member of the first horticultural society in Georgia. In
1876 he helped to organize and was the first president of the Georgia
State Horticultural Society, a position which he held until his death.
In 1860 he became a member of the American Pomological Society and was
at once intrusted with important committee work in that organization.
His work here was done so well that in 1887 he was elected president of
the society and later was four times re-elected. Mr. Berckmans was a
member of a number of state and national horticultural and scientific
organizations other than those named and was an honorary member of many
similar societies in Europe. In 1893 he was chosen to make the opening
address of the Horticultural Congress held at the World’s Fair in Chicago
that year. Mr. Berckmans was eminent in entomology as well as in botany
and horticulture and was interested in all the sciences. Through much
reading, study and travel he became versed in literature and art as well
as science. Mr. Berckmans’ fellow-workers in horticulture, his business
associates and the patrons of his nursery, justly esteemed him for his
amiability, integrity and public spiritedness. At his death, November 8,
1910, a well spent life was ended.

[207] Luther Burbank, known the world over for his work in bringing into
being new plant forms, was born in Lancaster, Massachusetts, March 7,
1849. He was educated in the common schools and in the local academy, his
school-training being supplemented by much reading in the well-stocked
library of which every New England town boasts. After leaving school,
some time was spent in a factory in Worcester, Massachusetts, but,
following a strong natural inclination to work with plants, he left the
factory to grow vegetables and seeds. It was while so engaged that he
grew the Burbank potato, most widely known and most valuable, if gauged
by the monetary value of the crops produced, of all of his new plants.
In 1875 Mr. Burbank went to California and a few years later began in a
small way the plant-breeding nursery at Santa Rosa in which most of his
work has since been done. The years preceding this beginning and several
following it constitute a time of hard labor, sickness and of financial
distress through which only a man of remarkable strength of character
could have lived and kept the desire to continue his work. Following a
decade, more or less, of difficulties after the start at Santa Rosa, Mr.
Burbank’s career as a world-wide figure in plant-breeding may be said to
have begun. One cannot briefly catalog the new forms of plants that have
gone forth from his private place in California; they must number well
into the hundreds; his biographer, in 1905, said that Mr. Burbank has
worked with over two thousand five hundred distinct species (Harwood,
W. S., _New Creations in Plant Life_ 1. 1905). Among these have been
practically all of the species of plums now under cultivation, from which
have been obtained, according to Mr. Burbank, hundreds of thousands of
plum-seedlings of which the breeder has selected a score or more of very
distinct sorts, all interesting and a few of them very valuable. The many
other fruits, flowers and forage plants which Mr. Burbank has sent out,
each involving the handling of countless seedlings, cannot be mentioned
here. Nor can his methods and results be discussed, except to say that
in them he is a unique figure in plant-breeding and that they have been
such that he has exercised a powerful influence toward the improvement of
plants. The practical results of Mr. Burbank’s work have been as great
or greater than those secured by any other person in plant-breeding,
yet they have been magnified out of all bounds in the popular press and
his work has been caricatured by calling the man a wizard and ascribing
to him occult knowledge. Of the plants introduced by Mr. Burbank the
proportion of really valuable commercial ones seems now to be small, but
what he has done cannot be measured by money values; he has awakened
universal interest in plant-breeding; has demonstrated that things
unheard of before his time can be done with plants; and, all in all, his
contributions in new forms of plants to horticulture and agriculture, in
their intrinsic and educational value, make him the master worker of the
times in improving plants.

[208] Statement in a letter from Mr. Burbank.

[209] Mr. Kerr in a letter written in 1909 says: “Wassu, as I have it, is
radically different from descriptions of both Waugh and Bailey. The tree
is as slovenly in habit as is that of the Burbank—there all resemblance
ceases.”

[210] This French plum proved to be the well-known Peach. See
_Horticulturist_ =1=:115. 1846.

[211] Mas _Le Verger_ =6=:61. 1866-73.

[212] Mr. Kerr writes: “As I have them here, Yeddo and White Kelsey
are the same. If there is a difference between Georgeson and Mikado, I
have failed to discover it, but Georgeson and White Kelsey or Yeddo are
plainly distinct. The former is larger, rounder and more greenish in skin
color.”

[213] Introduced by Wiley and Company of Cayuga, New York in 1892. See
_Cornell Sta. Bul._ =131=:193, fig. 47. 1898.

[214] _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:52. 1896.

[215] _Pom. Mag._ =3=:148. 1830.

[216] _Can. Hort._ =18=:117. 1895.

[217] H. A. Terry was born in Cortland County, New York, July 12th, 1826.
His parents were from New England having come as pioneers to New York
from Worcester, Massachusetts. The spirit of pioneering seems to have
been strong in the Terry family for in 1836 the parents moved again to
Livingston County, Michigan. The son, leaving his parents in 1845, again
went westward to Knox County, Illinois, and still again in 1846 farther
west to Pottawattamie County, Iowa. After this there were still more
wanderings in which Mr. Terry and his family, he having married in 1848,
were as far east as New Haven, Connecticut, for two years and again west
to several places in Iowa. He finally engaged in the nursery business at
Crescent, Iowa in 1857; he lived here for over fifty years, giving to the
world his best services in the production of new fruits and flowers, and
here his death occurred February 14th, 1909. Mr. Terry was noted as a
peony and a plum specialist. Of plums he is the originator of over fifty
sorts nearly all from the native species—a record unsurpassed in point
of numbers for new varieties by any other plum-breeder. Several of Mr.
Terry’s plums are of surpassing merit for varieties of their species;
among these may be named such well-known sorts as Gold, Hammer, Hawkeye,
Nellie Blanche, Crescent City, Downing and Milton. Most of his varieties
are offspring of _Prunus americana_ but there are a few from _Prunus
munsoniana_ and _Prunus hortulana_. Unfortunately there is little in
regard to Mr. Terry’s method of breeding plums on record for he seems to
have written or spoken little for publication. He was long a prominent
member of the Iowa State Horticultural Society and for a number of years
had charge of one of the experiment stations of this society. Of his work
with peonies, of which he produced more than one hundred named sorts, and
with other plants, space does not permit discussion. The last half of his
life of more than four score years was a tireless effort to improve the
fruits and flowers of the Mississippi Valley.

[218] Lauche _Deut. Pom._ No. 2. 1882.

[219] _Cornell Sta. Bul._ =106=:53. 1896.

[220] Orville Morell Lord was born in China, Wyoming County, New York,
April 20, 1826. When he was eleven years of age the Lord family moved to
Lapeer, Michigan, where the subject of this sketch attended the district
school and then for a time was in a private school at Pontiac, Michigan.
In 1852 Mr. Lord moved to Winona County, Minnesota, where he built a
saw mill, and for some years owned and managed a lumber yard. It was
only after middle life that he became interested in horticulture and he
then chose the native plums as fruits with which to work. He was not a
breeder of plums and the Rollingstone, brought in from the wild and sent
out by him in 1882, is the only addition to pomology, in the way of a
new variety, made by him. The work with this fruit which has given him
a name as a plum specialist was in testing hardy varieties. He tried
thoroughly all the native plums to be obtained, and much of the present
information as to the hardiness of plums for the cold northwest is due
to knowledge gained from Mr. Lord’s experimental orchard. He became a
member of the Minnesota State Horticultural Society in 1884 and in 1889
was made an honorary life member of this organization. For some years
he was a Farmers’ Institute lecturer on horticulture and was for a time
horticultural editor of _Farm, Stock and Home_. He was not only known
in the Northwest as a plum specialist but carried on correspondence
with plum growers throughout the whole country giving much valuable
information regarding this fruit. Beside giving attention to plums he
tested many apples for his region and was the originator of one or two
varieties now very generally grown in his State. During his life he
filled several places of public trust, being a member of the Territorial
Legislature in 1853-4 and of the State Legislature in 1873-4. He also
served at various times in minor offices in his County and in his State
being at the time of his death a member of the Forest Reserve Board of
Minnesota. With Peter Gideon he was one of the pioneer fruit-growers
in the Northwest and while he has left few fruits of his own breeding
and few records in print of the work he did, yet his long and faithful
service in developing fruit-growing in the Northwest makes him one of the
men of note in American pomology. Mr. Lord died July 21, 1906.

[221] Of this fruit Burbank writes to this Station under date of December
6, 1909, as follows:

“I have this season also about 65,000 or 75,000 Plumcot seedlings,—a
wholly new fruit which promises great things for localities where it
can be grown. These Plumcots vary more astonishingly from seed than
anything which I have ever produced. No pure Apricots or pure Plums are
produced, but every possible variety and every possible combination
and all qualities are brought out strongly. The range of colors is
astonishing,—some new combinations of colors never before seen in fruits
have been produced. The best California judges of fruits—the great
growers and shippers—have pronounced some of these varieties the best
fruit ever produced on this earth. Most of these fruits have a beautiful
downy skin—many of them smooth—flesh orange, yellow, white, crimson or
green; pits peculiar. The fruits vary from about the size of a medium
peach down to the size of Green Gage plums, though the various ones are
of every possible size, form, flavor, color, time of ripening, etc. The
trees, in some cases, grow faster than any other fruit tree. Sometimes
branches grow on even quite young trees twelve feet in length and an inch
in diameter in a single season. Others are quite slow growers or even
dwarfs.”

[222] _Am. Pom. Soc. Rpt._ 105. 1891.

[223] J. W. Kerr, one of the best informed and most enthusiastic
cultivators of native and Triflora plums, was born in York County,
Pennsylvania, January 23, 1842. He is of Scotch-Irish lineage paternally
and of English ancestors maternally. His education at the village school
was supplemented by several years teaching and much reading and study
in horticultural literature, fondness for which seems to have been
inborn. In his early manhood Mr. Kerr engaged in growing trees for sale,
a business with which he soon combined a fruit plantation in which he
collected and tested all the plums that could be grown in his climate,
comprising the great majority of the varieties of American species and
of the Oriental plums. This work began in 1870, since which time no man
has done more to popularize and improve native plums than Mr. Kerr. His
most valuable work has been in testing varieties, where his knowledge
of this fruit, his judgment and his sense of discrimination have made
his opinion, as set forth in his nursery catalog and in the reports of
horticultural societies, authoritative. He has, too, done considerable
work in breeding plums, Choptank, Sophie and Maryland probably
representing the best of his endeavors in originating new plums. It is a
duty and a pleasure to acknowledge here the great services rendered by
Mr. Kerr in the preparation of _The Plums of New York_.

[224] Emmett Stull Goff was born at Elmira, New York, Sept. 3, 1852.
He was educated in the public schools and in the Elmira Free Academy,
graduating from the last named place in 1869. The following years were
spent on his father’s farm until in 1880 he became Associate Editor of an
agricultural paper, but finding the work uncongenial he returned to the
farm for a short time leaving again to accept in 1882 a position at the
New York Agricultural Experiment Station which had just been established.
Here for seven years Professor Goff gave his attention to vegetables. His
classification of a number of vegetables, the pea, tomato, cabbage and
onion in particular, are still standard in American vegetable culture.
During his work at this Station he did much pioneer work in spraying
plants and invented a device for mixing kerosene and water. In 1889
Professor Goff moved to Madison, Wisconsin, where he became professor
of horticulture in the University of Wisconsin and horticulturist of
the Wisconsin Experiment Station. Here for fourteen years he gave his
attention to various phases of fruit-growing and vegetable-growing.
His bulletin 87 on “Native Plums” is the outcome of several years’
experiments in testing and breeding plums of such of our native species
as will grow in Wisconsin. His work with plums is particularly valuable,
as he was able, in his location, to do much to ascertain the degree
of hardiness of many varieties of the species of cultivated plums.
From his work with sterility and fertility of varieties came valuable
recommendations regarding the cross-pollination of such varieties as
are self-sterile. He is the author of _Principles of Plant Culture_ and
_Lessons on Fruit-growing_, text books much used in high schools and
agricultural colleges. Professor Goff was a modest and retiring man but
singularly independent of view in all things regarding his work and all
things that concerned men—a serene, lofty-minded, unselfish man. His
death occurred at Madison, June 6th, 1903.

[225] Aug. Royer _Annales De Pomologie Belge et Etrangere_ 63. 1859.

[226] William Prince, born in 1725, was the second proprietor of the
famous Prince nursery at Flushing, Long Island, a nursery established by
his father, Robert Prince, about 1730. The first of the American Princes
was one of the Huguenots who settled at New Rochelle and on the north
shore of Long Island, bringing with them a great number of French fruits
and the love of the French people for horticulture. The nursery, one
of the first, and certainly the most important one in America at this
time, grew rapidly until the Revolutionary War. The establishment was of
such public importance that during a part of the war the British placed
a guard over it to protect it from depredation. With the establishment
of peace came an increased trade and the nursery soon attained even
greater prominence than before the war. An effort was made by William
Prince, then in charge, to import all of the valuable European fruits
beside which he grew many seedlings, selecting carefully from them new
varieties. Thus in 1790 twenty-five quarts of Reine Claude plum pits
were planted from which came Yellow Gage, Imperial Gage and probably the
Washington plum. Prince died in 1802, his business having been divided
between two sons; Benjamin Prince keeping the original place under the
name The Old American Nursery and William Prince occupying a new place
called the Linnean Botanic Garden and Nursery. William Prince seems not
to have had the inclination to write as did his son and grandson but
had, even more than they, business energy. His European exportations
and importations made his name famous in horticulture abroad as well
as at home. To him Americans owe the introduction of many varieties of
foreign fruits and ornamental plants; his was the first of the great
nurseries of the country, soon to be followed by others, to import and
exchange plants with foreign countries; his is the first recorded attempt
to breed fruits in America on an extensive scale and the fact that the
three plums sent out by him are still valuable varieties indicates his
judgment as to worth in fruits. The reputation made by his son, William
Prince, the second, and by William Robert Prince, a grandson, as writers
on horticultural subjects, is in large measure due to the information
acquired for them and the training given them by the William Prince of
this sketch.

[227] Gilbert Onderdonk was born in Sharon, New York, September 30, 1829.
As a boy he showed a taste for horticulture and while a lad planted seeds
of potatoes, made selections and developed several varieties more or
less widely grown in the middle of the last century. Mr. Onderdonk was
educated in the Cortland Academy at Cortland, N. Y., and in the State
Normal College at Albany. After having taught in the district schools of
New York for a few years, he found it necessary to go to a warmer climate
because of bronchial trouble and in 1851 moved to Texas, where he became
a cowboy, a rancher and finally a fruit-grower. In the region in which
he had settled there were wild grapes and wild plums in abundance. The
luxuriance of growth and the number of these fruits so impressed him with
the possibilities of fruit culture in southwestern Texas that he began
planting fruit trees. Of necessity these came from the north and for most
part failed. Not to be discouraged, Mr. Onderdonk began the improvement
of the wild varieties about his home. From 1855 to the present time his
work has been the testing for the region in which he lives, of every
variety of fruit to be had in Europe and America, and the improvement of
the wild fruits growing about him. The plum, in particular, has received
attention from Mr. Onderdonk, and his chief work with this fruit has
been the hybridization of Triflora and Munsoniana varieties from the
crossing of which he has grown some valuable plums. In 1887, the United
States Department of Agriculture employed Mr. Onderdonk to work with
plums, grapes and peaches in the southwest, the results of which are to
be found in the reports of the Department immediately following the year
mentioned. He has also done considerable work for the French in sending
resistant vines to France. Mr. Onderdonk is one of several workers in
horticulture who have unremittingly served Texas and the southwest in the
production of new varieties of fruits and in testing varieties from other
regions. The value of the foundation these men have laid for horticulture
in the southwest cannot now be estimated.

[228] _Mich. Sta. Bul._ =118=:52, 54. 1895.

[229] Thomas _Am. Fruit Cult._ 493. 1897.

[230] Joseph L. Normand was born at Marksville, Louisiana, January 14,
1853. He was educated in the public schools of the parish in which he
lived. After leaving school he followed the vocation of a printer for a
number of years, though from childhood horticulture had been an avocation
with him. Before middle life he gave up office work to begin actively
the growing of nursery and fruit trees. His work in horticulture early
developed into plant-breeding and towards the close of his life all of
his energies were devoted to the production of new types of plants. In
his plant-breeding Mr. Normand became noted as a hybridizer and a great
majority of the fruits and ornamentals sent out by him were hybrids.
Among these may be named the Carnegie Orange, a hybrid more or less
frost resistant, which he obtained by crossing the Louisiana Sweet
Orange with _Citrus trifoliata_. Mr. Normand also devoted much time to
the testing of figs and sent out the New French Fig, selected from some
seventy varieties which he had grown. Pears, apples and plums received
his attention and in all these fruits he developed original types by
hybridization. Possibly his most meritorious work with the plum has been
in testing Triflora and native varieties, although he has sent out not
a few hybrids of this fruit most of which, however, do not thrive in
northern climates. Mr. Normand did for his region what Kerr, Munson,
Terry, Lord and Williams have done in other parts of North America
in testing plums. All who knew Mr. Normand say that in this day of
commercialism he worked almost wholly for the love of plants—to improve
them for his fellow fruit-growers regardless of the money to be made
in his calling. He lived and worked in a region where his achievements
were at first little known and little understood, quite content to work
for his work’s sake, but in the end he gained distinction among the
fruit-growers of his State and attracted the attention of plant-breeders
all over the United States. Mr. Normand died in the town of his birth,
April 17, 1910.

[231] A. L. Bruce, whose name appears so frequently in the pages of _The
Plums of New York_ as a breeder of native plums, is of Scotch descent.
His father, however, came from Illinois to Texas, settling at Basin
Springs, Grayson County, in 1845, where he planted the first orchard in
that part of Texas. The son, subject of this sketch, was born October 6,
1861, and was educated in the common schools at Basin Springs, Texas. His
work in growing and breeding trees began in his youth, for in 1877 he
established himself as a grower and collector of native plums to which
he added many of the Triflora varieties that were soon after introduced
from Japan. Mr. Bruce’s first definite problem in breeding plums was to
find extra early and extra late sorts for Texas; his Six Weeks, Red May,
Dayton and several other plums were the results of these efforts. In 1902
Mr. Bruce moved to Donley County in the Panhandle of Texas from which
place he has sent out and continues to send out Triflora, native and
hybrid plums of unusual merit. Beside working with plums Mr. Bruce is a
breeder of peaches, pears, raspberries, dewberries and apples, to all of
which fruits he has made more or less notable contributions. Mr. Bruce is
still in the prime of life, has many plant-breeding problems projected
and his work promises much for horticulture in the Southwest and in the
country at large.




Transcriber’s Notes


Words surrounded by _ are italicized.

Words surrounded by = are bold.

Illustrations were relocated to correspond to their references in the
text.

The illustration “October” was apparently omitted from the book (three
different copies checked).

Obvious printer errors corrected and inconsistent spellings have been
kept, including inconsistent use of hyphen, accents, capitalisation, and
proper names.

Index entries that do not match their referenced text corrected (except
where the text is an obvious printer error). Index entries that refer to
non-existent text have been deleted.
